PEPERIUM Meme market on Ethereum blockchain
Introduction
PEPERIUM is a new conception in how memes are communicated and traded online. It is a new rare pepe themed trading card game (TCG) on the Ethereum blockchain, that not only is a showcase and gallery of pepe memes - it is also fully decentralized. How is this done and how does it compare to existing meme marketplaces? This white pepe introduces the technology on which PEPERIUM is built and the plans for continuing development.
Part I - Technology Stack
PEPERIUM will be different to other meme markets as it will be fully decentralized. How is this done? Rare pepe meme trading was previously done via Counterparty[1], which means that trading card tokens can be issued and freely exchanged in a decentralized manner. However, key services of rare pepe on Counterparty are not decentralized. This includes apps such as Book of Orbs, Spells of Genesis, and the like - including the central showcase of Counterparty rare pepes, which is backed by a centralized Wordpress site ­ (wordpress=bad) http://rarepepedirectory.com [2]. This centralization is troubling, because if one of these apps or websites were to fail or

become unavailable, the image and other media associated with that pepe card would cease to exist, due to the centralized hosting. The artist would never have a copy. The art would never be stored anywhere else. Only in one central place. Allthough the above apps are centralized in the sense of needing a server somewhere. The users keys are not in control of the centralized app. PEPERIUM aims to be different, by utilizing smart contracts stored and executed on the Ethereum blockchain, it is possible to store both the token and the image or multimedia associated with that token in a secure and decentralized manner. Ethereum is great for storing large image files. Although the description field in Counterparty can be used to point at the image or URL of a card asset, this is not enforced. In PEPERIUM, image storage can be a direct enforcement as part of the contract and web form used when creating a card token. This allows for jihad pepe, ass rapepepe and isis pepe without censorship from a foundation. Secondly, PEPERIUM sites and services will be IPFS based - https://ipfs.io [3]. This is a decentralized file store which allows the storage of dynamic, distributed sites that can interact with Ethereum via the web3 interface (DAPPs). It is archival in nature, and used by such organizations where backing up large amounts of data are important, such as ArXiv and Project Gutenberg. This ensures longevity and security of the services, they can host and exist indefinitely as long as there are parties, for example the artists, twitter where the images were shared, archive.org where the images have been archived and many other places - PEPERIUM organization included - that continue pinning and hosting the sites even when they are widely archived.
Part II - PEPERIUM features and RARE token The PEPERIUM Dapp will have an assortment of features to make creating and trading rare pepe cards fast and streamlined. This includes a creator's upload form, a gallery of certified rares, and a wallet showing all rare pepe card holdings and images. An auction house and decentralized exchange are also planned, where card tokens can be priced and sold in PEPERIUM's native token - RARE, or directly in ETH. The RARE token is a meme rading token designed with meme trading in mind, and it will be used to handle creation and listing fees, and possibly as an incentive for pinning the PEPERIUM Dapp on IPFS. It can be traded and exchanged freely on Ethereum marketplaces, and PEPERIUM organization plans for RARE to be listed in the Parity token registry and various Ethereum exchanges. We can ride on the back of what PEPECASH did and cash in 500x.
Part III - RARE token specification
Type: ERC20-compliant token Supply: 100 million tokens, weekly deflation (burns) starting 4/20 - to 21 million max circulation. circulation. Divisibility: 8 decimal places Use: Trading card creation, gallery certification, card sales & auctions, gaming promotion of anything not allowed by the foundation Availability: Bounties, airdrop program (see below), Ethereum exchanges and marketplaces.
Contact PEPERIUM organization can be reached via email: pepe@peperium.com

