Digix's Whitepaper: The Gold Standard in CryptoAssets (English  )
prepared by: Anthony C. Eufemio <ace@dgx.io>
Kai C. Chng <kcchng@dgx.io> Shaun Djie <shaundjie@dgx.io>
January 2016 Version 1.03
Abstract Digix provides a use case for the tokenisation and documentation of physical assets through its Proof of Asset (PoA)protocol. The PoA protocol utilises Ethereum1 and the InterPlanetary Files System (IPFS)2 to track an asset through its chain of custody. This allows for the open and public verification of an asset's existence without a centralised database. Digix also offers an API allowing other applications to be built on top of our asset tokenisation service.

Product Life Cycle

Technical Overview:

1 "[English] White Paper  ethereum/wiki Wiki  GitHub." 2014. 29 Dec. 2015 2 Benet, Juan. (September 11 2015) "The IPFS Project  How it works".IPFS

Key Products
1. Proof of Asset (PoA) Asset Cards
PoA Asset Cards consist of the below information permanently uploaded onto the decentralised database:
 Time Stamp of card creation  SKU of the gold bar  Bar Serial number  Chain of Custody digital signatures (Vendor, Custodian, Auditor)  Purchase Receipt  Audit Documentation  Depository Receipt  Storage fees due
PoA Asset Cards are kept in an Ethereum Wallet.
2. Digix Tokens (DGX)
Dgx Tokens are minted via a Minter Smart Contract. Each DGX token represents 1g of Gold and divisible to 0.001g. For every PoA Card that is sent to the Minter Smart Contract, DGX tokens will be issued in return. For instance, a 100g PoA Card sent to the Minter Smart Contract returns 100 DGX tokens to the user.
Digix Tokens are held in an Ethereum Wallet.
Key Processes
There are 3 modular processes that Digix uses to provide a proof of existence and fungibility for an asset, 1 for redemption of physical assets, and 1 that encourages 하pp Development. Those processes consist of:
1. Proof of Asset (PoA) Verification process which records and provides an audit trail of an asset on Ethereum to create PoA Asset Cards. The asset cards are certified using sequential digital signatures from the entities in the chain of custody, namely, the Vendor, Custodian,Auditor,which are further validated with proof of purchase and depository receipts provided and uploaded onto IPFS for permanent record (Fig i).

Figure i: Digix Asset Registration Process

The PoA Verification contains a sub process for regular audits as shown in (Fig ii). Figure ii: Audit Process

2. Minter Smart Contract to create fungible DGX tokens, that accepts or holds PoA Asset Cards in exchange for DGX tokens (Fig iii).
Figure iii: Minting Digix Gold Asset Cards into Digix Gold Tokens

3. Recaster Smart Contract,which is used to exchange DGX tokens back into PoA Asset cards. (Fig iv). Figure iv: Recasting Digix Gold Tokens into Digix Gold Asset Cards
4. Redemption Process,for redeeming physical gold bar with PoA Asset cards. (Fig V). Figure V: Digix Gold Redemption and Token Based User Identification
5. Generic I/O Contracts, allowing developers to utilize PoA Cards or DGX tokens for 하pp development.

Ethereum Smart Contracts Stack
The diagram below shows the individual Digix smart contracts deployed on the Ethereum blockchain that make up the core processes above.

Digix's Proof of Asset Participants (Blockchain Oracle Entities)
Asset Vendor
ValueMax Singapore, a publicly listed company, supplies London Bullion Market Association (LBMA3) certified gold bullion bars through the Digix Marketplace. Established in 1988, they provide pawnbroking services, retail and trading of preowned jewellery, gold and luxury timepieces.
Independent Auditor
Bureau Veritas Inspectorate will carry out quarterly checks on the quality and quantity at our custodian vault to ensure accounting is upheld. They are a multinational group with capabilities in an extensive range of commodities, providing independent inspection, sampling and testing services of precious metals.
Every gold bullion is rigorously tested with precision instruments at Audit. We perform such measurements using Ultrasonic Gauge Measurements (UTM) and densometers. UTM is a method of performing nondestructive measurement (gauging) of the local thickness of a solid element basing on the time taken by the ultrasound wave to return to the surface. Densometers are devices that measure the density of objects with water displacement.
Participating Custodian Vault
MalcaAmit's state of the art facility near Singapore Changi International Airport is located in the Le Freeport of Singapore, a 25,000 sqm highsecurity and climatecontrolled facility featuring cutting edge security technologies enhanced by green building engineering.
Multiparty Trust Mechanism
The Digix system relies on multiple independent participants to provide a transparent platform for the tokenization of physical assets. We can assume that miners in a Proof of Work based cryptocurrency system will act rationally, that is, that they would act in a way to maximize and protect their long term profits by performing their role of transaction verification. We assume that a cartel of rational miners would not collude to perform double spending attacks as such attacks would cause reputational damage to the entire system. We must therefore assume that in the Digix system which is the triparty system consisting of asset providing vendors, the asset custodian in charge of storing and securing the asset from theft, and the auditor in charge of
3 "LBMA  FAQs". The London Bullion Market Association.

ensuring the authenticity of the reported assets in custody are all acting in a rational manner who are trying to maximize their profits from the fees that they collect for their service.
Mitigating Potential Points of Failure with Real World Governance
Dishonest Entities and collusion in the chain of custody
Digix works with entities in jurisdictions that provide stringent regulatory oversight and corporate governance. The entities we have engaged with are either publicly listed or well known in the industry for providing their niche service. Each entity that we have engaged with performs a separate function to prevent cheating. For instance, the asset vendor for physical assets cannot also be the asset custodian. The interest in the service has to be independent of one another. While the risk of collusion is a real possibility, it is at the cost of severe reputational and legal damages to the colluding participants. As these entities provide similar other services to other customers and such reputational and legal damages to their core business would be detrimental to their business, we can make a fair assumption that they will act in a rational manner.
Key Benefits
No centralised database management of Crypto Asset records
All chain of custody information is fully managed by the Ethereum blockchain. This blockchain ledger is immutable with data upload taking significantly less time than on the Bitcoin blockchain.4
No Webbased login
There is no web form login. Users will download desktop clients from Digix. The application itself can also be compiled from source on Github and is publicly auditable.5There is significantly less chance of a Man in the Middle attack compared to traditional user webbased login. 5
Secure Cold Storage of CryptoAssets
Digix's Aegis Vaults is a cold storage wallet custodial service for cryptoassets and crypto currencies on Ethereum.
Perpetual Existence of Digital Assets
4 CryptoBond. (September 16, 2015) Why Is Ethereum Different to Bitcoin.CryptoCompare 5 H jemlvik, Erik. (March 27, 2011) Network Security Blog. "Network Forensic Analysis of SSL MITM Attacks".NETRESEC

All asset data is recorded on the blockchain and exists indefinitely. Even if Digix folds, every proof generated can be verified and are admissible in a court of law in the applicable jurisdiction.
Ex post facto Incentivization Mechanism
The Proof of Asset process requires that regular quarterly or more frequent audits to be performed by a 3rd party auditor on the entire collection of gold assets held at the custodian vaults. The auditor performs a complete audit of each gold bar which includes verification of its authenticity, weight, and physical examination to detect anomalies or defects. The auditor submits a record on the Gold Registry contract for each and every single bar that has been audited, which contains an IPFS reference to a signed paper documentation, the auditor's Ethereum identity, and a pass or fail result.
Digix receives its revenues through the collection of transaction fees paid in the form of Digix gold tokens. These tokens are held in an escrow contract which can only release the tokens to a specified address after the successful completion of a 3rd party audit.
Generic I/O Contracts and 하pp Development Opportunities
The generic I/O contract provided at Digix allows developers to utilize PoA Asset Cards or Digix tokens for 하pp development and event logging. Our vision is to create an ecosystem for developers to utilize DGX tokens as a framework for various 하pp developments. Code samples will be provided on our Github.
Wealth Inheritance
Dead man's switch can be built as a service to allow wealth to be passed on in the form of Crypto Assets to the mentioned Ethereum address under the Digix system.
Gamification
In legal jurisdictions, DGX tokens can be used like bitcoin to facilitate in game currency or as gaming tokens.6 The PoA protocol can also be used for the issuance of digital gaming assets.7
Escrow
DGX tokens can provide a better and less volatile store of value for Escrow services on the blockchain.
6 Farivar, Cyrus ( January 22, 2013). "Bitcoinbased casino rakes in more than $500,000 profit in six months".Ars Technica.
7 Addison, Ian. (December 22, 2015) "Gamechangers FreeMyVunk and Digix allow video gamers ..." IB Times.

Crowdfunding
A 하pp can provide crowdfunding opportunities with cryptocurrencies and cryptoassets, or offer convertibility of cryptocurrencies to DGX tokens as a hedge to price volatility.
Gold Backed Crypto Currency Developments
Cryptocurrencies can stake a portion of its value with DGX Gold tokens and Gold Assets, backing its value with Gold.
Crypto Exchanges and Wealth Management 하pps
When exchanges integrate DGX tokens as a cryptocurrency pair, they will be able to offer a gold hedge to cryptocurrencies as part of their service offering. Wealth management services that adjusts your cryptocurrency / crypto asset holdings can be developed to manage an individual's crypto financial risk profile.
P2P Lending and Microfinance
하pps can utilize DGX Gold for peer to peer lending. A borrower can call for funding through a 하pp based on his risk profile and reputation and negotiate a rate of return on the borrowed funds. Interest / yield payments can be serviced at regular intervals with a penalty system in place for late payments. This has already been done with bitcoin8, but due to the price volatility of cryptocurrencies, lenders may lose more of their asset value than what can be earned from the interest during the period of the loan. The price stability of DGX Gold Tokens can facilitate the adoption rate of such services.
Collateral services
Privately held assets can be safely and efficiently used as collateral without going through lengthy verification process to ascertain an asset's existence and authenticity.
Conclusion
Digix will provide a transparent, audit friendly, safe protocol that leverages the full potential of Ethereum's decentralized consensus ecosystem and IPFS to facilitate crypto assets on the blockchain.
8 Shieber, Jonathan (June 5, 2014). "BTCJam Brings Its BitcoinBased Lending Service To Emerging Markets".TechCrunch.

Ethfans

Digix
prepared by: Anthony C. Eufemio <ace@dgx.io>
Kai C. Chng <kcchng@dgx.io> Shaun Djie <shaundjie@dgx.io>
V1.02

 DigixPoAPoA 9IPFS10 chain of custody DigixAPI 

:



9 []  ethereum/wiki Wiki  GitHub." 2014. 29 Dec. 2015 10 Benet, Juan. (September 11 2015) "IPFS".IPFS


1 PoA
PoA    SKU            
PoA 2 DigixDGX
DGXDGX10.001PoA DGX100 PoA100DGX
Digix

3--Digix11 Dapp
1. PoAPoA  IPFS 
 i Digix

PoAii ii

2 DGXPoADGX iiiDigixDigix

3 DGXPoAiv ivDigixDigix
4 PoAv VDigix

5 /I/OPoADGXDapp 
Digix 

Digix 

ValueMaxDigixLBMA11 ValueMax1988 

Bureau Veritas Inspectorate DGX 
UTM UTM 

MalcaAmit25000 

Digix PoW  Digix  

11 "LBMA".l


Digix     


 12 
 DigixGithub Digix13 

Digix

Digix 

12 CryptoBond. (September 16, 2015).CryptoCompare 13 Hjemlvik, Erik.(March 27, 2011) . "SSL MITM".NETRESEC

   IPFS 
DigixDigix 
/I/ODapp
DigixI/OPoADigixDapp DGXDapp Github

Digix 
 DGX14PoA 15 7

DGX

DappDGX 
14 Farivar, Cyrus ( January 22, 2013)."Bitcoinbased casino rakes in more than $500,000 profit in six months".Ars
Technica.
15 Addison, Ian. (December 22, 2015)"Gamechangers FreeMyVunk and Digix allow video gamers ..."IB Times.

 DGX
Dapp
DGX /  P2P AppDGXP2PDapp / 16 DGX     
DigixIPFS 
16 Shieber, Jonathan (June 5, 2014)."BTCJam Brings Its BitcoinBased Lending Service To Emerging Markets".
TechCrunch.

