WHITEPAPER:
HOW WIRELESS PRESENTATION MIGHT BE SOLUTION FOR YOU
A publication of

How Wireless Presentation Might Be Solution For You
Executive Summary
Everyone has seen this happen. A speaker has spent hours polishing a presentation, only to have it delayed by a search for a cable to connect to the projection system. As a result, attendees do not get a positive first impression about the organization. With the move to wireless presentation systems, these challenges are rapidly disappearing.
Here are some of the reasons for the growing popularity of wireless conference rooms:
· You will save time. Wireless presentation systems let you get started in seconds. No more thumbing through your phone while you are waiting for the speaker to set up.
· They look great. You have invested in your conference room décor and furnishings. You don't want a mass of cables detracting from the look. This tells attendees that yours is a professional organization.
· Everyone is safe. No more danger of tripping over wires.
· Attendees can bring their own device. We all have our favorite tool, whether it's a laptop, iPad or Android phone. Wireless presentation systems let everyone use their preferred device.
· Free up your IT sta . Your IT professionals have more important tasks than connecting cables to projectors.
Ubiq is an all-in-one presentation tool that solves all of these challenges. It allows anyone ­ using any device ­ to share their presentation in less than 10 seconds. Ubiq is wireless, making it easy to set up and use.
Some of the features of Ubiq include:
One-click solution Our system is easy to use ­ walk into any meeting room, press one click and start a wireless presentation in 10 seconds. We support HD audio and video of 1920 X 1080p with up to 30 frames per second. Lastly, don't ever worry about changing the screen resolution ­ Ubiq automatically adjusts your resolution to fit the screen.
Dashboard We have an all-in-one administrative dashboard that allows you to monitor all your hives from a single location. You can track performance analytics (including usage and specific individual usage of the hive) with real-time status and graphs to track progress. You can also perform maintenance features and make updates without have to enter the meeting rooms. Since the dashboard is hosted in the cloud, you can access it anywhere and anytime.
Remote presentations We believe that remote presentation will change the way that people meet and present. Remote presentations allow remote users to view, present and participate in any meeting. This feature is currently in closed beta and we will be providing this service to all customers soon.
Page 1

Calendar integration When Ubiq is plugged into your TV or projector, it displays a homepage that includes the calendar for that meeting room. Ubiq integrates with your calendar services (both Exchange Server and Google Calendar) to get read-only access. Now, when meetings are booked they show up in real time on your TV and indicate which participants are in the meeting room.
Software/hardware integrations Ubiq can be connected to your current hardware, including any audio or video conferencing systems that have an HDMI port. At the moment, we do not integrate with any software solutions but we plan to create a unified solution specifically for your meeting rooms. Stay tuned for more information.
Active directory integration Integration with Active Directory or other SSOs has never been easier, which ensures level enterprise security for all your meeting rooms. Simply login with your credentials to authenticate internal users or guests from the Ubiq app.
Device support Ubiq currently works with Macintosh and PC laptops. We are in closed beta to operate on mobile devices.
Over the network streaming We developed our technology around UPnP protocol, which allows streaming to be done over your network. You can give a wireless presentation and be connected to your network at the same time ­ accessing corporate files from your network has never been easier. However, you can maintain security by having guests utilize P2P streaming, which includes a bridged connection to the guest network.
Why choose Ubiq: Comparison with Crestron AirMedia
The Crestron AirMedia presentation device supports up to 32 users who can share their presentations. Four presentations can be displayed in a quad window. As well, up to 40 remote users can participate in the meeting. Attendees can use Windows and Mac computers and Apple iOS and Android phones. Video is shown at a relatively slow 15 frames per second. The device is compact, measuring just 1.1 in by 6.15 in by 2.39 in.
Price Crestron AirMedia costs $1,600 to purchase, requiring you to make a significant outlay just to get started. At Ubiq, we want you to keep your money. We o er monthly subscriptions, with no long-term commitment. You can subscribe monthly for $70 per hive. Your savings are even better with more than 5 hives or if you choose the annual plan for just $56 per month.
Security The security of AirMedia depends on your existing security system. Ubiq brings security to the next level by integrating with Active Directory to ensure that only the authorized users are given appropriate access.
Based on how the user signs in to Ubiq, they are given access to the appropriate network while streaming. Guest users will be connected to your guest network, while internal users will join the corporate network, allowing them to access materials as needed.
Page 2

Support With Crestron, you get the hardware and you have to download updates yourself. You have to be attentive to make sure that it is current. At Ubiq, our system runs in the cloud, allowing us to provide weekly software updates, support and maintenance. These are automatically installed ­ you don't have to do anything.
Network dependence AirMedia must be connected to the building's LAN. If internet use is high, it can cause a delay in streaming your presentations, leaving your attendees unimpressed. Ubiq has its own network and does not use up your network resources. This ensures that your presentations always run smoothly.
Video quality AirMedia is not designed for video, which is now one of the most popular tools for presentations. Users have reported that video is jittery and causes the system to shut down. Ubiq supports video and presents it fully synchronized (the sound matches the video). Video is 1080p. Participants will be pleased with your flawless video presentations.
Ease of installation You need to be an IT professional to install AirMedia. The device comes with a 32-page guide explaining every step in the installation process. With Ubiq, anyone who is technical or non-technical can install one of our hives quickly and easily. If you have any questions, we are there to help.
Quick start-up With AirMedia, you have to make a couple of steps to start making a presentation. You must visit a webpage and enter a code before you can begin. Ubiq o ers a one-click solution that allows you to start presenting in seconds.
Managing devices Managing multiple AirMedia devices "can be a significant task," according to the company's literature. Each device must be monitored individually. With Ubiq, our dashboard hosted in the cloud lets you to manage all of the hives across the organization. A single dashboard allows you to monitor updates, performance analytics and maintenance. You will know exactly what is going on with each hive in real time.
Why choose Ubiq: Comparison with Barco
The Barco ClickShare complete presentation package can connect up to 64 users (although it only comes with four buttons that have to be shared). It can display four users at a time. It o ers synchronized sound and video, with a video frame rate of 30 frames per second. ClickShare works with Windows and Mac computers and iOS and Android smartphones. Barco does not have a capacity for remote users. The device is quite large, with dimensions of 7.1 in by 10.2 in by 10.9 in.
Price Barco ClickShare requires an investment of thousands of dollars to purchase their hardware. At Ubiq, we o er monthly subscriptions instead. The Barco complete presentation package costs $3,950. With Ubiq, you can subscribe for just $70 per month per hive. Your savings are even better if you have more than 5 hives or if you select the annual plan at $56 per month.
Page 3

Software solutions Barco hardware may be obsolete in a few years and you get no support. At Ubiq, we see ourselves as a software company, providing weekly updates, support, maintenance and upgrades to hardware. No buttons With Barco, you are limited to two buttons that allow individuals to present from their device. These buttons have to be passed around the table. You can purchase the upgraded model with four buttons ­ for an extra fee. Ubiq doesn't require buttons and doesn't restrict the number of users able to connect and stream. You simply work from your own device. Smaller hardware Ubiq's hardware is completely wireless and about a third the size of Barco's. That means you no longer have to hide the hardware behind the screen! Mirroring With Barco, you must purchase the more expensive CSC-1 model to be able to mirror. The base model CSM-1 does not mirror. Ubiq o ers full mirroring, projecting what's on your screen to the group. Video quality When showing a video on Barco, the sound may not match with video of a person talking. Ubiq o ers full synchronization. Monitoring The Ubiq dashboard allows your IT professionals to monitor live activities and perform maintenance ­ without stepping into the meeting rooms. Barco does not o er this feature. Integration Barco is a stand-alone system. Ubiq integrates with Active Directory to authenticate users. We can also integrate with Exchange Server or Google Calendar to display meeting dates/times and invite the required attendees. Security Ubiq brings security to a level beyond what Barco o ers. We ensure that only the right users are given appropriate access. Data is encrypted and nothing is recorded or stored.
Page 4

