VIBEHUB White Paper vibehub.io

TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.2 VIBEHub Overview 1.3 The Marketplaces and Hubs on VIBEHub 1.4 Why content creators and consumers will choose VIBEHub 1.5 Technology of VIBEHub 1.6 Volumetric Video Technology
2.1 TOKEN SALE INFORMATION 2.2 Chart for coin distribution 2.3 Chart for how ICO funds will be used 2.4 In-depth analysis of how ICO funds will be used 2.5 VIBEHub revenue model
3.1 HOW VIBE IS USED 3.2 The future of VR/AR Technology 3.3 The Future for VIBEHub

2017 VIBEhub.io

2

I.1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

VIBEHub is a technology platform with the capacity to create virtual reality marketplaces and hubs, allowing users to buy and sell experiences far beyond the possibilities of traditional technology. Imagine a virtual seat at a live concert that feels like you're actually at the show or a virtual meet-and-greet with your favorite artist who lives 2000 miles away from you. VIBEHub makes it all possible. Lessons ranging from boxing, guitar and yoga are examples of this VR technology. The instructor can be scaled as life-sized or as small as a butter-fly instead of being

limited to the confines of traditional technology. All transactions on these hubs will use our VIBE token, a cryptocurrency based on the Ethereum blockchain. What elevates VIBEHub above traditional Virtual Reality applications is the ability to capture visual performances in Volumetric Video (Holoportation Technology). Utilizing holograms of artists, educators or instructors and placing them in our own custom (VR) environments is what will ensure VIBEHub is at the forefront of (VR) technology for years to come.

2017 VIBEhub.io

3

I.1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The technology for virtual reality has been in development for decades, it's only now with the advent of ultra-highresolution screens coupled with the increased velocity of graphic processors has it become practical for the average consumer to own virtual devices. The largest technology companies in the world such as Microsoft, IBM, Facebook and Apple have collectively invested billions of dollars into VR/AR research. Recently, their collective developments have finally reaped dividends with mixed reality devices now being sold around four hundred dollars with some devices as low as seventy dollars. Imagine yourself looking out the window of a space station in a virtual world where you can attend live concerts, collaborate on a creative project, engage in boxing lessons or set up a virtual date.
Our VIBEHub platform makes this all possible and you can experience it today with a recently released fully immersive VR beta. Utilizing mixed reality devices

available at almost any electronics store worldwide, we can transport users into a world unlike anything they've ever seen. By harnessing the power of the Ethereum blockchain and the VIBE token we can monetize this new virtual world.
The "Hub" in VIBEHub is a unique virtual world centered around social ideas such as hubs for artists to share music with their fans, instructors to share their knowledge with students and social hubs to watch movies together or even set up virtual dates. The potential for these hubs truly are limitless.
These hubs are primarily community driven spaces. As you walk through these worlds you can meet and interact with friends, artists or instructors using real-time voice communication. You can watch a movie together in VR, play games, watch a concert or even take a class. You will be paying for these services in VIBE tokens, creating a natural demand for the currency.

2017 VIBEhub.io

4

1.3 THE MARKETPLACES AND THE MUSICIAN'S HUB

HUB 1: The Musician's Hub - Live Virtual Concerts and 1-on-1 Interaction with your favorite Instructors.
Since the advent of the Internet, music has spread globally. Conversely, in an era of globalization these fans are spread out all over the world. This creates a barrier, in which many fans will never get the chance to experience their favorite artist in person. Have a favorite musician but can't afford to go see them in concert 500 miles away? Put on your VR headset, start the VIBEHub app, pay some VIBE tokens and you can view them in your own immersive VR experience. Want to go back stage for a meet-and-greet? Pay a bit more VIBE and you can do that too. Your favorite artist can see and interact with you personally as if you both occupy the same space. Musicians can also post their songs and receive tips in VIBE, which creates a form of Virtual busking. This will be available on our browser based version as to not leave anyone without access to VIBEHub. The financial opportunities for this

marketplace and hub have unlimited potential. According to industry magazine Billboard, the concert business is a 25 billion- dollar market. Virtual concerts have no touring costs, no booking cost and have a potential audience that extends across the globe.

2017 VIBEhub.io

5

1.4 THE MARKETPLACES AND THE TEACHER'S HUB

HUB 2: The Teachers Hub- Live Virtual

without having to wait due to long process

Lessons and 1-on-1 Interaction with

periods. The experiences VIBEHub offers are unique and cannot be pirated. This gives VIBEHub

your favorite Instructors.

intrinsic value that's unique to other platforms.

These factors will make our platform lucrative to

As it stands, the greatest technology in the world will be ineffective if it lacks an audience or if a larger competitor duplicates your business plan. Fortunately, VIBEHub is arriving at a unique time in the history of computing and Virtual reality.

creators as the opportunities for monetization are astronomical.  We have connections. Our team has been active in the music and virtual spaces for years. We can use these connections to bring well-known musical acts to the platform which will bring legitimacy and widespread media coverage. We've

already been in touch with several different artists

 We make virtual worlds better then

to bring content to our Musician's Hub. We will

anyone else. Experienced and talented AR/ VR

be releasing software to the largest VR platforms

programmers and 3-D artists are incredibly rare

in the world such as Oculus Rift, HTC Vive and

and we have the best. VR technology is still in its

PlayStation VR. VIBEHub is strategically positioned

infancy and the skills needed to create the virtual

at a crossroads that will only exist once in history.

productions were using aren't currently taught

Both Cryptocurrency and Virtual Reality are on

in school. There is a small population of 3-D art

the cusp of mass adoption during the same time.

programmers in the world that can duplicate our

Just last year, both blockchain technology and

skill-set and even fewer that can do it at our level

VR would have been too primitive for VIBEHub

of quality. Our team has been in the VR industry

to exist. Five years from now these technologies

for years, working on successful games and virtual

will be everywhere. This is the perfect moment

experiences. The quality and sheer beauty of our

for VIBEHub to become the largest platform in a

virtual worlds are unrivaled anywhere in the VR

world changing industry.

industry.

 Astronomical Monetization opportunities.

 Cryptocurrency and the Ethereum blockchain

Any main stream artist or popular educator

make it easy for creators to get paid, giving

streaming a performance or lesson on the

them an incentive to use our system. Content

VIBEHub application will be able to reach millions

creators, such as musicians and teachers both

of their fans all at the same time. The amount

share the same dilemma, there's no easy way for

of revenue that can be generated from one

them to earn money online. YouTube requires

concert or lesson alone is unlike anything possible

hundreds of thousands of views to generate

in technology today. An artist like Ed Sheeran

a return which most content creators will find

or Beyonce is limited to 20,000 in attendance

difficult to obtain. Selling videos or music online

maximum at an average live show. By doing a

is at times difficult and can leave you open to

VR/AR show where they appear directly in your

piracy. Utilizing the Vibe currency on the VIBEHub

living room, the attendance can reach millions.

platform is the solution to this problem. Creators

This creates a revenue stream non-existent to

can charge fees in VIBE currency regardless of

musicians today.

where they are in the world and get paid instantly

2017 VIBEhub.io

6

1.5 THE TECHNOLOGY BEHIND VIBEHUB

Transactions using the VIBE token will run on the Ethereum blockchain. Our web platform will be compatible with Metamask and the Myst browser, making it easier to bridge non-crypto users to our platform for the first time. Our frontend is hosted on AWS CloudFront in multiple geographic locations which scales automatically to handle any number of users. The backend consists of NodeJS microservices that run on server-less environments (i.e. Containers, Lambda Functions (LAAS), etc.). Our virtual reality development uses Unity Engine, SteamVR SDK, Oculus SDK, Microsoft HoloLens SDK and Sony PSVR SDK.Using this combination of technologies will allow us to develop a cross platform product that will work on both existing and future hardware. The voice chat and body tracking of avatars in virtual spaces will use P2P technologies that allow massive user scaling while keeping costs minimal. We are proud to be the first to integrate our VIBE token wallet into virtual space.Our current focus will include the use of special multi sensor stereographic cameras to achieve what we like to call "HoloPresence". This technology has been demonstrated

by the Microsoft research team in the "HoloPortation" project. Integrating this technology into our platform will create a unique experience that's not only a first for the blockchain, but also for the rest of the computing world as well. While most traditional VR/AR applications are focused on 360 video VR, our technology expands to a place the world has never seen. Using Volumetric video, we're able to place live performances of artists and educators using their holograms in our own custom VIBEHub VR environments.

2017 VIBEhub.io

7

1.6 VOLUMETRIC VIDEO TECHNOLOGY
What makes VIBEHub truly unique and the forefront of VR/AR technology is our incorporation of Volumetric Video Technology. This allows us to capture a hologram of an artist or educator and place that performance or lesson in our own custom VR environments or in augmented reality. There is only a handful of companies in the world capable of using this futuristic and incredibly monetizable technology, VIBEHub being among those companies. The hologram is photorealistic and completely immersive appearing as if a live person is directly in your living room and essentially giving the essence of a live concert or education class is in your personal space. Volumetric Video Technology is still in it's infancy and as this technology advances, holograms will become more realistic and immersive.

2017 VIBEhub.io

8

2.1 TOKEN SALE INFORMATION

The Pre-sale for Vibe will run from August 7th to August 21st with a minimum purchase of 25 ETH. The official token sale will begin August 22nd at 1pm MST and will run until September 21st or until the maximum hard cap has been reached. The maximum hard cap is 115,000 ETH. Once the token sale has been completed or the hard cap has been reached, we will provide a contract address where you will be able to send your VIBEX tokens to be exchanged for VIBE. The entire supply of 267,000,000 VIBE coins has been pre-mined, and 160,200,000 Vibes will be available during the token sale. The amount of VIBE you receive will be proportional to the total amount raised. Bonuses will be available to buyers who purchase early. For more information, please see our taken sale page.

2.2 ICO Distribution
5% 10% 10%

2.3 Token Sale Fund Distribution
20%

15%

60%

30%

50%

Token Sale Founders Future Development & maintenece Early Contributer & Collaborations Promotion & Marketing
2017 VIBEhub.io

Future Development Marketing & Advertising Collaborations & Endorsements
9

2.4 IN DEPTH ANALYSIS OF HOW ICO FUNDS WILL BENEFIT VIBEHUB

The ICO funds that are raised in the sale will be used for three major purposes, further development of VIBEHub, marketing & advertising and finally collaborations & endorsements.
Future Development VIBEhub will use 50% of the funds raised during the ICO to further develop the VIBEHub platform. The long-term success of the project will require us to hire the most talented programmers and artists available. Skilled 3D modelers, graphic artists and coders will allow us to produce high-quality content at a rapid rate, keeping us far ahead of our competitors. Other funds will be used to provide the team with high end equipment such as servers, VR/AR recording cameras and software.
Marketing and Advertising VIBEhub will use 30% of the funds raised during the ICO for the marketing and advertising of VIBEHub. We will also hire as many marketing and advertising specialists as the ICO funds allow us to. A project like VIBEHub depends on mass market adoption and requires high-quality marketing in a way that other coins like Bitcoin do not. We recognize this and will be placing an emphasis on marketing as the project develops.This will include engaging

in Facebook and YouTube marketing campaigns, attending tradeshows, advertising VIBEHub at concerts, festivals and education conferences across the world. This will ensure that our platform will become a household name.
Collaborations and Endorsements We feel the best way to market VIBEHub is to associate ourselves with high profile artists who can spread the word about VIBEHub. We will allocate 20% of funds raised during the ICO towards working exclusively with mainstream artists who've accumulated large followings on social media. Cryptocurrency projects are heavily influenced by exposure, the attention these collaborations will bring us will be a primary driver towards mainstream adoption. ICO funds will be used to book top-charting artists like Rihanna to give a concert on VIBEHub. Imagine the publicity when Rihanna promotes her VIBEHub concert across all her social media platforms and encourages fans to download the software and attend her show. The amount of awareness and attention this could potentially bring to VIBEHub will be colossal.We are already in discussion with several well-known artists, and they have been very excited about the possibilities we offer.

2017 VIBEhub.io

10

2.5 VIBEHUB REVENUE MODEL

Revenue Sharing Initially we'll be offering the VIBEHub application for free to build interest in the platform. As demand grows we will begin to take a percentage of revenue generated by user-uploaded streams. This revenue model will provide us with a stable and recurring source of revenue.
In-World Advertisements We will be offering advertisements within our virtual hubs and marketplaces as a form of revenue generation. Virtual Reality allows new ways of advertising to users without being obtrusive. A spaceship or a blimp that floats above the user in the sky and plays a video is alluring as opposed to a pop-up ad that forces customers away from what they're doing. Our advertisements are visual rather than simple text and we can command a higher price for them.

Partnerships Partnerships will be important to bring VIBEHub to more people and further increase the demand of the VIBE currency. We're already in negotiations with several companies who have shown great interest in using the VIBE currency on their platform. Several companies already see great value in having their content featured on the VIBEHub platform. We will be able to charge fees for the companies using the VIBE currency on their platforms and we'll also be able to get royalties on income generated from various companies using the VIBEHub application to launch their content.

Monetizable Digital Assets Every VIBEHub user will be given a virtual "home" where he or she can meet with friends and enjoy the virtual reality experience. Users will be able to customize these homes by purchasing more appealing lighting, larger TVs and other assets to make their virtual home unique. We will have a team of 3D modelers and asset creators working to design a wide-range of products that can be sold to users using the VIBE coin.

2017 VIBEhub.io

11

2.4 IN DEPTH ANALYSIS OF HOW ICO FUNDS WILL BENEFIT VIBEHUB

The ICO funds that are raised in the sale will be used for three major purposes, further development of VIBEHub, marketing & advertising and finally collaborations & endorsements.
Future Development VIBEhub will use 50% of the funds raised during the ICO to further develop the VIBEHub platform. The long-term success of the project will require us to hire the most talented programmers and artists available. Skilled 3D modelers, graphic artists and coders will allow us to produce high-quality content at a rapid rate, keeping us far ahead of our competitors. Other funds will be used to provide the team with high end equipment such as servers, VR/AR recording cameras and software.
Marketing and Advertising VIBEhub will use 30% of the funds raised during the ICO for the marketing and advertising of VIBEHub. We will also hire as many marketing and advertising specialists as the ICO funds allow us to. A project like VIBEHub depends on mass market adoption and requires high-quality marketing in a way that other coins like Bitcoin do not. We recognize this and will be placing an emphasis on marketing as the project develops.This will include engaging

in Facebook and YouTube marketing campaigns, attending tradeshows, advertising VIBEHub at concerts, festivals and education conferences across the world. This will ensure that our platform will become a household name.
Collaborations and Endorsements We feel the best way to market VIBEHub is to associate ourselves with high profile artists who can spread the word about VIBEHub. We will allocate 20% of funds raised during the ICO towards working exclusively with mainstream artists who've accumulated large followings on social media. Cryptocurrency projects are heavily influenced by exposure, the attention these collaborations will bring us will be a primary driver towards mainstream adoption. ICO funds will be used to book top-charting artists like Rihanna to give a concert on VIBEHub. Imagine the publicity when Rihanna promotes her VIBEHub concert across all her social media platforms and encourages fans to download the software and attend her show. The amount of awareness and attention this could potentially bring to VIBEHub will be colossal.We are already in discussion with several well-known artists, and they have been very excited about the possibilities we offer.

2017 VIBEhub.io

12

3.1 HOW VIBE IS USED

VIBE will be the only currency used on the VIBEHub application. With VIBE driving the platform, this will create a natural demand for the currency. VIBE can be used in numerous ways on the application such as the purchasing of concerts & lessons along with buying hundreds of digital assets and tipping. We are developing an off-chain solution on VIBEHub that will create instant and free micro-transactions for the use of VIBE. This will eliminate all scaling issues that VIBEHub may have to deal with in the future by being on the Ethereum network.
3.3 THE FUTURE OF VR/AR TECHNOLOGY
Over the past decade countless companies have spent billions of dollars investing in VR/ AR technology. Companies such as Apple, Microsoft, IBM, Google, Sony and Facebook. These companies are heavily invested in preparing for the upcoming virtual worlds. Analysts predict the market to grow near $162 Billion U.S.D by the year 2020. Hardware devices are becoming cheaper for average consumers and high-end devices are starting to reach their full potential. The amount of impact VR/AR technology will have on the world is incredible. Entertainment and social activities from your own household within the VR/AR worlds are

going to change the way consumers watch content over the internet as well as the content creators ability to monetize their work.
3.2 THE FUTURE OF VIBEHUB
The VIBEHub platform has come at an amazing time because both cryptocurrency and VR/AR technology are becoming mainstream at the same time. The future is exciting for both blockchain technology and VR/AR tech. The impact both technologies will display over the next 3 to 5 years will be the greatest advancement in technology the world has ever seen. With the advancements blockchain technology will see and as VR/ AR devices and software become more advanced, VIBEHub will remain a pioneer in both technologies for years to come. The capturing of photorealistic holograms is what many experts believe is going to make VR/AR technology mainstream. The futuristic aspect of holograms and the combination of it with augmented reality is going to change the way the internet is used today. Our team is excited and focused to showcase this technology to the masses and ensure everyone in the world will see the future of our reality on the VIBEHub platform.

2017 VIBEhub.io

13

2017 VIBEhub.io

14

2017 VIBEhub.io

15

vibehub.io

