PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com
¡ ¢£ ¦¤¥§ © ¨ 
Section 1: Screen Design
1.1 What is it? The Aeon CLRTM is an EDGE FREE CLRTM fixed frame screen that uses Elite's innovative StarBright CLR® (Ceiling Light Rejecting) material. Aeon CLRTM with StarBright CLR® offers a wide viewing angle, neutral color temperature, and enhanced picture contrast in a theater-grade image. EDGE FREE CLRTM means there is an internal framework with wraparound material bordered with an ultra-thin bezel. The screen uses a Ceiling Light Rejection technology. An LED back-lighting Kit is included for added aesthetics.
1.2 How does it work? StarBright CLR® is specifically designed for ultra-short-throw projectors to provide a large-screen performance in the close quarters of most residential or even training environments. Its serriform optical surface lens microstructure negates the washout effect of ambient light especially from overhead sources. This also enables the material to provide contrast levels that are 100 times greater than that of standard matte white projection screens.
1.3 What is the proper projector placement for the StarBright CLR®? The StarBright CLR® is exclusively for table-mounted ultra-short throw projectors as illustrated in the Example 2 diagram on the following page. Overhead placement or a standard projector will make the image very dark, on account of the screen's absorbent layer deflecting light that is not aligned with its reflective angle.
Example 1: Proper projector installation
1 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com Example 2: Improper projector installation
Images are not to scale and are only for illustration purposes
Section 2: Product Features
2.1 Characteristics Screen Material · StarBright CLR® Ceiling Light Rejecting material absorbs up to 95% of overhead lighting · 100x contrast enhancement over standard matte white screens · Multi-layer optical structure filters out ambient light for superior picture quality · Ultra wide viewing angle allows viewers to spread out while maintaining uniform picture quality · Active 3D, 4K Ultra HD, and HDR Ready · Produces lifelike images with superb color fidelity · Black-backing eliminates light penetration · Available in the following diagonal sizes: · 90" and 100" in 16:9 format Design and Installation · Sleek EDGE FREE CLRTM Fixed Frame · Lightweight aluminum split-frame design · Wraparound design maximizes viewing area and reduces overall footprint · Ultra-thin black bezel trim · Project from within a short distance without shadowing the picture
2 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com · Designed for table-top ultra-short-throw projectors · LED Backlight kit included Quality and Reliability · 2-year Parts & Labor manufacturer's warranty · 3-year warranty offered through ENR-G program (Education, Non-Profit, Religious and Government)

2.2 Model Numbers

Model

Nominal Aspect

Number Diagonal Ratio

Viewable Viewable

Height

Width

Screen Material

N.W. G.W. Gain
(lbs) (lbs)

Packing Dims. LxWxH (inches)

AR100H-CLR 100"

16:9

49.0

87.2 StarBright CLR® 0.6 22.8 31.7 59.3"x11.8"x6.5"

AR90H-CLR

90"

16:9

44.1

78.4 StarBright CLR® 0.6 20.4 29.0 53.2"x11.8"x6.7"

Section 3: Screen Material Specifications
3.1 Characteristics StarBright CLR® is a ceiling light-rejecting front projection material designed specifically for tabletop-mounted ultra-short-throw projectors. The StarBright CLR® features a multi-layer optical lens structure that absorbs off-axis light from above while providing a clear image. This allows the picture to be free from washing out the projected image.

Features & Benefits · StarBright CLR® ceiling light rejecting material absorbs up to 95% of overhead light · 100x contrast enhancement over standard matte white screens · Ultra wide 180° viewing angle allows viewers to spread out while maintaining a bright picture · Designed for table-top ultra-short-throw projectors · Project from within a short distance without shadowing the picture · Produces lifelike images with superb color fidelity · Capable of improving brightness, color, and contrast under ambient light conditions · Multi-layer optical structure filters out ceiling light for superior picture quality · Rigid material with black-backing eliminates light penetration which allows for excellent reflectivity · Active 3D and 4K Ultra HD Ready · Mildew resistant, screen surface can be cleaned with a microfiber cloth and water
3 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com

3.2 Technical Data

Composition Surface Color Thickness (mm)
Weight Width On-axis Gain Viewing Angle Lens Throw Ratio Projector type Ambient Light Absorption Rate Soft Edge Blend Adaptive Bright Environment Operating Temperature

TUP + PET Black
 0.47mm 0.02mm
500 g/m2 1.5 M (59")
0.6 180° < 0.3x image width Ultra-short throw 95% Yes 50-500 LUX indoor 14° - 122° F

3.3 Gain and Viewing Angle Chart

3.4 Contrast Ratio Test Screen Material StarBright CLR® Matte White

Black Level (nits) White Level (nits)

2.1

530

261

670

Contrast Ratio 252.38 2.57

Note: Test was conducted in a 600 lux ceiling light environment. Black level under ceiling light conditions reveals that contrast ratio for StarBright CLR® is 100x more than the Matte White material.
4 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com

Section 4: Execution

4.1 Maintenance & Precautionary Notes

Dust, dirt and scratches on the projection screen surface will affect the quality and performance of the projection

image. For optimal results we advise to pay attention to the following instructions.

1) The screen surface has a horizontal structure. DO NOT wipe the screen up and down or in a circular motion.

Wipe from left to right only.

2) Please clean the dust on the screen surface with a soft brush or microfiber cloth (rough towel or cloth may

damage the screen's surface).

3) Gently wipe the screen with a moistened microfiber cloth with mild soap diluted in water.
 Notes The following precautions should be followed at all times to avoid damaging the material, which

is not covered under warranty.

Don't touch the screen material to avoid leaving fingerprints. Use gloves when handling the material.

Don't scratch the material, as it will leave permanent markings on the screen's surface.

Don't point to the screen material with a fingertip or other sharp objects to prevent damage to the

material.

Don't use acetone, benzene, alcohol and any other organic solvents to clean the screen material. Using

such chemicals will permanently damage the screen.

4.2 Submittals Hardware and Parts List Please make sure all parts listed below are included before installation.

A. Elbow joint x4 pcs

B. Top/Bottom frame x 4 pcs

C. Left/Right vertical frame x 2 pcs D. Center joints x 2 pcs

E. Center support bar x 1-2 pcs

F. Wall brackets x2-3 pcs

G. M6 screw x 2-4 pcs

H. M5x15 screw x 24 pcs

I. M6x12 screw x 2-4pcs

J. Screw and anchor x 6-9 pcs

K. Rubber mallet x 1 pc

L. Screw driver x 1 pc

M. Black Tape x1bag

N. Bezel trim x6 pcs

O. Corner sleevex 4 pcs

P. White gloves x2pcs

5 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com

4.3 Installation Assembly Video Watch our assembly video on-line at www.elitescreens.com/aeonCLR_assembly or scan the QR code

Frame Assembly

1. Insert the center joint into one of the ½ horizontal frames and fasten it with the two M5x15 screws (H).

2. Insert the other ½ horizontal frame piece to the center joint and fasten also using two M5x15 screws.

3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for assembling the second horizontal frame.

Push

Push

Top right

Center joints
Top left Horizontal frame

4. Insert and slide in one M6 screws (G) through the channel located on the back of each horizontal frame (B).

M6 hex screws (G)

Horizontal long frame

Face up Place one M6 hex screw (G) in the center for attaching the center support bar (E)

5. Insert the elbow joint (A) into each end of the horizontal frames (B) as shown below.

ElbowJoint (A)

Horizontal long frame (B)

ElbowJoint (A)

Push

6 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com
6. Insert the two vertical short frames (C) into the elbow joint (A).

push

Horizontal long frame (B) Vertical short frame(C)

push

7. Join the remaining horizontal long frame (B) with the frame built in the previous steps as shown below.

Horizontal Long frame(B)

Push

Push

8. Make sure all four corners are properly in place to form a perfect square. Then fasten the four angles with the M5x15 Screws (H).
7 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com

Four corners join correctly to form a perfect rectangle. Use the included screwdriver (L) to fasten the Mx15 screws (H) into each corner by aligning the frame screw holes to the holes inthe elbow joint (A).

Screen Material Installation
Please read this important note before proceeding with the installation process of the material:
Before handling the StarBright CLR® material, put on the supplied pair of white gloves to avoid leaving fingerprint marks, dust or hand oil on the material's surface (Figure1). The StarBright CLR® material is very delicate and should be handled with extreme care. Do not allow the material to fold or bend. Failure to follow instructions will result in permanent damage to the screen material, which is not covered by warranty.
1. Remove the StarBright CLR® material from the packaging tube and set it gently on a clean surface. Tip: Carefully put a small flat weighted object at the edge (PVC/Velcro end) to prevent it from moving out of place. Please keep the front of the material face down.
2. It is strongly recommended for two people to unroll the material to prevent the screen from bending or rolling unevenly. Each person holds one end of the roll and slowly unroll the screen in a clockwise direction (Figure 2).
3. Lay the material completely flat with the front facing down on a clean surface in a horizontal position (Figure 3).

Figure 1

Back side of material

Tip: Small weighted object Front side of material

Figure 2

Figure 3 Horizontal position laid on a clean surface

8 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com
4. Carefully and gently place the assembled frame on top of the screen material as shown below. Make sure to not allow the angle edge of the frame to come in direct contact with the material to avoid puncturing or damaging it.

Screen material back facing up

Velcro

5. After all of the corners of the frame have been properly aligned (example D), attach the material on the frame in the following order ABCD (see instructions below for details).
6.

A

D

D

C B
Attach the screen material to the corners as shown below.

1) Stretch the screen material in the direction of the arrowhead.

2) Fold over and attach material to the Velcro strip of the frame.

3) Fold over second side and attach to frame

4) Repeat until all four sides are done in the order A, B, C, D

9 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com
Note: Represents the screen material

Note: The black shaded part represents the Velcro on the frame. That Velcro end will ultimately attach with the other Velcro end on the screen material.

7. Proceed to attach the rest of the material to the frame as described in the illustrations below.

Grasp the middle of the screen material and attach it to the Velcro strip on the frame
A

Lay the Velcro end on the screen material over the Velcro end of the frame and keep it within the edge.
  Proceed in the following sequence
The key is to attach within the middle sections of 1 and 2. Then continue attaching the remaining unattached areas.
Repeat the same steps on remaining three sides in the sequence A, B, C, D.

Attach in the following

C

D

sequence:a-b-c-d

B
10 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com Screen Material Removal Follow the steps to properly remove the screen material from the frame. This procedure will ensure prolonging the life of the screen material.
1. Detach the Velcro from the frame. 2. Gently pull back the material to release the material
from the Velcro connections on the corners
Pull back the screen material from the Velcro connection along the edges of the frame to detach it.
Support bar installation 1. Position the center support bar (E) in the middle of the frame and align the hole on each end of the support bar with the M6 hex screws (G) on the top and bottom frames. Then fasten with the M6x12 screws (I).
Move the M6 hex screw (D) to the middle area of the frames.
Support bar
Align the M6 screws with the two holes.
11 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com

Edge trim Installation Included is an black edge trim that provides an elegant ultra- thin bezel finish.

Edge trim x 6 PCS

Plastic corner sleeve x4pcs

Black tape x1pcs

1. Place the assembled frame on a flat and clean surface. The projection screen surface should be facing up. Align the tape with the edge of the screen, as shown in Figure 1. Once properly aligned, apply the black tape to the center of the top and bottom of the screen material.

Black tape

Screen Material

The black tape

Figure 1

2 Without removing the adhesive tape, place all the trim pieces along the edge of screen material. Adjust the trim

pieces so that the four corners are evenly aligned. (Note: The Elite logo should be positioned on the bottom right).

Refer to Figure 2 below for a visual reference.

Front Side

Trim strip
Back Side
Figure 2 NOTE: Make sure the bottom edge trim with the Elite Screens logo is installed on the correct side. The back of the material should be labeled with a DOWN sticker to indicate the material is facing in the down position. The Elite Screens logo should be installed on the DOWN side. The reflective layer is facing the correct side in order to reflect the projector's light rather than absorb it.
3. After properly aligning all trim pieces, carefully remove trim piece A (see Figure 3 below). Remove the inside backing of the tape and place the trim piece in its original position on the frame. Repeat this step for the remaining trim pieces in the following order: B-C-D-E-F. 12 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd. Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com

A

B

F E Figure 3

C D

The front side of the frame with trim pieces attached

4. After the bezel trim has been installed, place a corner sleeve (O) on all four corners. Begin by aligning and adjusting the corner sleeve through the front of the screen. Make sure the corner sleeve completely wraps the edge of the bezel trim.

Back side

Front side
Once all corner sleeves have been snapped into each corner of the frame, it is ready to be installed. Diagonal Size Note The Diagonal Size of the 100" models before and after installing the edge trim strip. 100H comparison:

Before installing the trim

After installing the trim

13 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com Installation 1. Correctly distinguish the top and bottom of the screen:
Place the assembled screen vertically on the ground. Look down on the screen, if the material is black it is in the correct direction and ready for mounting on the wall. However, if the material is white, turn around the screen and then install it. Note: There are also "Top" and "Bottom" labels on the back of the screen material to help distinguish the correct direction. Please make a note of this.
2. Preparing for installation 1) Locate your desired installation location with a stud finder (recommended) and mark the drill-hole area of
where the screen is to be installed. (The distance of the holes is between 1/3 to 2/3 the length of the horizontal frame.) 2) The installation height must be based on your projector's throw height and the distance between your projector and the screen, since this screen is just for Ultra-Short-Throw Projectors. Please refer to your projector's distance calculator for proper measurements.
3. Fixed installation 1) Drill a hole with the proper bit size according to the wood screws included. 2) Line up the wall brackets with the drilled holes on the installation location and screw them in using a Phillips
screwdriver. 3) Position the frame screen onto the wall brackets (F) as shown below. 4) The design of the wall brackets allows the frame to slide over them through its sides. This is an important
feature of the installation design as it allows your screen to be properly centered.

Frame

Bracket

Wall

14 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com

Section 5: Product Dimensions and Drawings
5.1 Dimensions
Unit: mm

Model Number
AR100H-CLR AR90H-CLR

Nominal Diagonal (Aspect
Ratio) 100"(16:9) 90"(16:9)

Overall Length (A)
2235.2 2016.8

Viewable Overall Width (A1) Height (B)

2214.9

1270.0

1991.4

1145.5

Unit: inch

Viewable Height (B1)
1244.6 1120.1

Bezel Width (C)
12.7 12.7

Frame Depth (D)
25 .4 25.4

AR100H-CLR

100"(16:9)

88.0

87.2

50.0

49.0

0.5

1.0

AR90H-CLR

90"(16:9)

79.4

78.4

45.1

44.1

0.5

1.0

5.2 Drawings

15 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com 5.3 Pictures Aeon CLRTM with ultra-short-throw projector
Life Style
16 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com Aeon CLRTM - Undoctored image with ceiling lights
LED backlight ­ Close-up
17 Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd.
Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

PRODUCT WHITE PAPER
http://www.elitescreens.com Aeon CLRTM comparison with matte white screen under ceiling lights
Section 7: About Elite Screens
Company Description Elite Screens Inc. is a US based company with its world headquarters in Southern California with satellite offices in China, India, Taiwan, Japan, Australia, Germany, and the Baltic States. Elite is an ISO9000-2008 certified manufacturer that specializes in producing retail, commercial and home-theater projection screens for the specific needs of these sales channels. As a leading American projection screen company, Elite delivers its promise of award winning quality and aggressive pricing on products for today's discerning video enthusiasts. Elite makes a variety of front, rear and acoustically transparent projection screen materials for virtually every projection environment. The Elite staff believes that when a customer gets their projection screen, it should include the full package instead of being "accessorized" for an additional cost like some other manufacturers do. Elite products include what is needed to set up the screen and have it working without having to buy anything extra. There is black-backing on the front projection matte white screens to eliminate light penetration. There is velour surfacing on the fixed frame screens that prevent reflective glare. Critical items like IR & RF wireless remotes, low voltage wall switches, RJ45 Ethernet control packages and built-in 5-12 volt trigger ports are also included. In our continued devotion to excellence in products and service, we are committed to implementing green practices with our production. We have adopted manufacturing methods that promote conservative regulation of our energy needs. Our simple product designs combined with the expertise of our permanent staff ensures that our entire line of products are made by experienced hands devoted to the high standards of today's audio-video consumer.
### 18
Elite Screens Inc. |Elite Screens Europe GmbH |Elite Screens France SAS |Elite Screens India | Elite Screens China Ltd. Elite Screens Taiwan Corp. |Elite Screens Japan | Elite Screens Australia

