JIBREL NETWORK
MAY 2017 SECOND DRAFT

YAZAN BARGHUTHI yazan@jibrel.network

VICTOR MEZRIN victor@jibrel.network

ABSTRACT

1

2

the jibrel network aims to facilitate the digitization , listing and trading of traditional assets

such as currencies, bonds and other financial instruments, on the blockchain. The jibrel

decentral bank will allow platform users to deposit cash, money market instruments or create

their own Crypto Depository Receipts (CryDRs) and benefit from onchain / offchain arbitrage.

Decentralized organizations and funds that are overexposed in digital currencies can hedge

their positions and protect their funding with stable assets. Furthermore, jibrel will provide

developers with a complete platform to build tools and applications for transacting, investing

and hedging, through leveraging traditional assetbacked tokens.

In addition, jibrel will enable instant, nearzero fee, global payments and remittances in the 3
form of fiat to fiat transactions that can be undertaken through peer to peer, business to business or consumer to merchant channels.

This white paper outlines the core components comprising jibrel, how they interact, and aims to demonstrate how the network can be builtout efficiently using existing infrastructure.

1.INTRODUCTION
Since their introduction with Bitcoin in 2009[1], blockchains have unlocked tremendous value. With this new technology, we can verify and commit transactions in an immutable decentralized ledger, or implemented more broadly, achieve decentralized consensus.
This incredible innovation is currently transforming our world by eroding the need for trusted intermediaries, settlement / clearing offices, and middleman service providers across a wide range of industries and sectors.
That being said, due to limited adoption at an institutional level, most of the cryptoeconomy's value remains siloed by usecase or geography. In addition, widespread systemic risk exists due to the bottlenecks imposed by these siloes in the form of challenges and limitations in converting between traditional assets and digital assets.
Given the disconnect between the traditional economy and the cryptoeconomy, the same challenges plaguing the former still persist in the latter. Users wishing to transfer traditional currency between one another still face the time delays and fees imposed by relying on a combination of cryptocurrency exchanges, traditional financial institutions, as well as payment processors.

Moreover, traditional individual and institutional investors, who could facilitate the quick movement of traditional assets offchain are deterred from participating due to the fundamental incompatibilities that exist  most notably, a lack of transparency and extreme market volatility[2].
Finally, decentralized organizations, who raise funding through crowd sales, as well as decentralized funds and cryptoinvestors, who are overexposed in digital assets and cryptocurrencies, have limited options to diversify into traditional holdings.
The risks are compounded further by the fact that digital currencies play a multifaceted role, they are used to reward miners for facilitating transactions; as a means of transferring value; as a speculative investment tool; and most recently, to crowdfund and run decentralized organizations and applications (e.g. decentralized computing[3], decentralized storage[4]).
In traditional finance, different instruments are used for these functions and are regulated accordingly. This helps manage systemic risk. Until decentralized regulatory consensus protocols are fully builtout, the cryptoeconomy faces security and fraud risk, in the form of unregulated exchanges; market risks, resulting from extremely volatile currencies that are used beyond their

1 Conversion to a cryptocurrency or token 2 Cash, bonds and equities 3 Governmentbacked currencies that are declared to be a legal tender without the backing of an underlying physical commodity

architectured purpose; and systemic risks arising from crowdfunds stored in volatile digital currencies and subsequently locked into smart contracts4.
This paper analyzes the limitations and challenges of the current environment and proposes an approach that leverages existing infrastructure to provide a solution for all stakeholders.
2. TRADITIONAL ASSETBACKED TOKENS
The core stakeholders in the jibrel ecosystem are; noninvestment users, who seek to benefit from the value unlocked by cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology, such as low remittance fees and instant transfers; traditional investors, who seek to benefit from the high returns of the emerging cryptoeconomy; and decentralized organizations / funds and cryptoinvestors, who seek to diversify their cryptoholdings with stable lowyield assets, onchain, as to remain transparent to crowdfunders.
The needs of all stakeholders could be successfully met by bringing the stability of traditional financial instruments to the blockchain. This can be accomplished by minting tethered tokens with onetoone backing of the underlying traditional asset they represent. Using such a method, tethered tokens can be used to denote a currency[5] or even a commodity[6].
By developing a `guarantor' that houses traditional assets and issues tokens representing ownership of the underlying assets, one can enable a widerange of currencies, commodities, money market instruments and other financial tools, to be openly traded onchain.
3. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
The following section outlines the key components of the jibrel network and what is required to facilitate putting traditional assets onchain.
3.1 Public Blockchain While reliance on another blockchain imposes a longlist of new challenges and limitations, a public and secure blockchain is required for early versions of jibrel, until full crosschain communication is feasible.
3.2 Cryptocurrency Exchanges Cryptocurrency exchanges provided endusers with fiat accounts in their local currency and digital wallets to hold cryptocurrencies. User can buy, trade or transmit digital currency, easily converting between crypto and fiat currencies.

3.3 Tethered Tokens

Tethered tokens will be required to create traditional

assetbacked tokens. For every traditional asset held a

tethered token is minted. Upon the underlying asset

being sold, the token is destroyed.

.

3.4 Guarantor In order to ensure tethered tokens hold their respective value, a guarantor is needed. The guarantor will hold traditional assets and issue their respective tethered tokens, as well as redeem and destroy tokens in return for the release / transfer of ownership of the underlying traditional asset.

3.5 Application Layer, Libraries & Templates Once tethered tokens are established, an array of applications that leverages their capabilities can be developed, including payment processors, remittance wallets and trading platforms. To facilitate rapid application development, a dedicated application layer with userfriendly libraries and code templates will be required.

3.6 Ownership Transfers Once a tethered token is issued, the underlying asset can be easily traded similar to any cryptocurrency. The highlevel process is outlined below:
1. User sends FIAT to guarantor 2. Guarantor returns jFIAT 3. User pays merchant in jFIAT 4. Merchant redeems jFIAT 5. Guarantor sends FIAT to merchant account
With a guarantor backing the tethered token, with the promise to redeem for the underlying asset at a future point in time, the token can stay in the system and be used for onchain and offchain payments.

3.7 Fees & Charges Transferring ownership of both digital and traditional assets have associated fees and charges that will need to be accounted.

3.8 Oversight / Regulation Any onchain transaction representing an offchain transfer of ownership or value must satisfy international and local regulation and must be managed accordingly.
Regulatory protocols / governance tools should be put in place to ensure proper governance and oversight.
All transactions must satisfy KYC / AML regulations.

4 Projects are at risk of not materializing if their funding is reduced due to market downswings, potentially leading to insolvency

4. JIBREL NETWORK IMPLEMENTATION
This section outlines how each component will be implemented in the jibrel network.
4.1 Ethereum Blockchain The selected blockchain must decouple mining rewards and the underlying transactions between the participants of the system. For this reason, Ethereum is well suited to form the foundation of jibrel's underlying architecture. Mining rewards will be in the form of Ethereum `gas', while any tethered token will not be part of the mining process[7].
While jibrel is also suited to be built on Bitcoin's Omniprotocol, that approach is beyond the scope of this paper.
4.2 Crypto Depository Receipts (CryDR) CryDRs are tethered tokens that represent ownership of an underlying traditional asset held by jibrel. In this paper, they are denoted as jAsset (e.g. jUSD, jEUR, jGBP). On release, jibrel will support six fiat currencies and two money market instruments, with plans to add additional financial instruments in the future.
4.2.1 Currencies / Fiat The first iteration of the jibrel network aims to support USD, EUR, GBP, RUB, CNY, AED with additional currency support gradually added as strategic exchange partners are integrated.
4.2.2 Money Market Instruments Stable lowyield assets are jibrel's core offering, cryptoinvestors will be able to purchase tokens tethered to US Treasury Bills and ZeroCoupon Certificates of Deposits. For the first iteration of the jibrel network, all money market instruments will incorporate an automatic rollover or accrual mechanism. Meaning, fiat received from matured investments, will be automatically redeployed in similar assets. Similarly, dividend or interest will be accrued until the underlying asset matures or is sold. In future versions, money market instruments will be configurable.
4.2.3 Other Financial Instruments In the future, as traditional financial institutions are integrated into the jibrel platform, full support of other financial instruments can be rolled out, including listed and private equity.
4.2.4 Smart Compliance Since CryDRs are fully programmable they can be embedded with regulation. Fiat currencies will be unrestricted, however the purchase and resale of other assets will need to be restricted by class and geography to be fully compliant. This logic is embedded in each CryDR.

4.3 Jibrel `Decentral' Bank (JDB) The JDB will receive / hold traditional assets on behalf of their owners and issue their respective CryDRs. Uponsends it to the owner's wallet. Upon redemption of a token, the token is destroyed and the underlying asset is transferred to the token holder.
While the JDB aims to be fully decentralized, until full onchain integration of traditional financial institutions, large components of the system will need to be offchain. Offchain activity will require the input and oversight of local and international regulators.
For this reason, stakeholder interaction must be properly managed to ensure full regulatory compliance without sacrificing transparency and reliability. This will be achieved through asset portals, dedicated entities operating with full compliance in their respective geographies.
4.4 Asset Portals Asset portals are used to undertake the necessary legal and financial steps to convert traditional assets into onchain digital assets.
Fiat portals will be simple cryptocurrency exchanges. Strategic partnerships can be formed with existing exchanges while a dedicated jibrel exchange network with sufficient geographic reach can be builtout. In addition, by housing a portion of jibrel's fiat reserves in existing exchanges, transfer times and fees are significantly reduced whilst simultaneously providing exchanges with much needed liquidity.
Nonfiat portals will require offchain presence to undertake the necessary due diligence and take ownership of nonfiat deposits.
In most geographies, asset portals will require brokerage and money transmitter licenses. In cases involving heavily regulated jurisdictions or more nuanced financial assets, full regulator involvement and oversight might be required.
As regulation evolves, asset portals will be able to decentralize and become community driven. Institutional investors and other financial institutions will be able to list their own traditional assets onchain, using the jibrel platform.
4.5 Jibrel Network Token (JNT) While nonfiat portals will charge offline fees in fiat currencies, the JDB's onchain fees and commissions will be levied in the form of Jibrel Network Tokens (JNT).
JNT will be listed on ERC20 compatible exchanges.

5. INFRASTRUCTURE
Critical data, such as user balances and transactions, will be stored on the blockchain while all other data is hosted on development servers.
Several development environments, tools and frameworks have already been developed to enable the rapid development of decentralized applications[8]. Jibrel will need to develop similar developer components, tools and frameworks to enable the widespread adoption and distribution of CryDRs.
Infrastructure will be required across two main dimensions, onchain APIs and offchain APIs / Utils.
5.1 Onchain Infrastructure Only four key smart contracts will be required for the network to operate effectively.
5.1.1 CryDR Smart Contracts Each asset registered with the JDB will have a CryDR issued in the form of a smart contract. CryDR smart contracts will be ERC20 compliant. Forwarding CryDRs between user accounts is similar to forwarding other ERC20 tokens between wallets.
5.1.2 Jibrel Decentral Bank Smart Contract A dedicated JDB smart contract will regulate the work of CryDR Smart Contracts.
5.1.3 Board of Directors Smart Contract (BODC) The Board of Directors smart contract (BODC) is the only mechanism to interact / influence the Jibrel Decentral Bank Contract.
BODC will be managed through a voting system, where members of the board can use their Ethereum accounts to vote on BODC actions. Storing and using private keys will be the responsibility of members. Ideally, the board will be composed of crypto thoughtleaders and financial services experts.
Figure 1. Crypto Depository Receipts  General Workflow

5.1.4 Helpers / Utils (Auxiliary Smart Contracts) We will also need to create several auxiliary smart contracts to enable auxiliary functions such as switching between contracts running different versions and enabling additional API features. Their detailed description is beyond the scope of this document.
5.2 Offchain Infrastructure In order to facilitate the widespread adoption of CryDRs as a transaction, investment and hedging tool, userfriendly libraries and code templates for application developers will be released.
Figure 2. Jibrel DApp API Workflow
5.2.1 Libraries & Templates We expect that developers will use existing libraries to interact with Ethereum Blockchain (for example, JS web3). We will release wrappers for this library and code samples that will simplify the interaction with the JDB and CryDR smart contracts. 5.2.2 CryDR Explorers Opensource explorers will be created, allowing users to view CryDR metadata and interact with the BODC as well as manually verify ownership of the underlying asset by the JDB. 5.2.3 Board of Director Toolkit Tools will be created to interface the internal IT infrastructure of CryDR Ltd with Ethereum blockchain. In particular, for the organization of interaction of the members of the board of directors with BODC and for operative monitoring of the state of the system.

6. SMART REGULATION IMPLEMENTATION
This section outlines the implementation of CryDRs, Smart Regulation and Compliance within the Jibrel Network
6.1 CryptoDepository Receipt (CryDR) Architecture CryDRs themselves are smart contracts deployed to the Ethereum blockchain. To facilitate a robust and scalable system, CryDRs should satisfy multiple requirements:
High Compatibility: Should employ an ERC20 interface to be compatible with existing token management tools Updatable Business Logic: Should be easily upgradable to keep up with evolving realworld rules and regulations Immutability: Should be immutable once deployed Migratable: Events and Storage should be stored separately Interactivity: CryDRs should be able to interact with each other
6.2 Existing Methodologies These technical requirements are difficult to achieve using the tools currently available within the Ethereum ecosystem. Upgradable smart contracts are challenging to implement, and while certain tools and methodologies exist, they each have their own limitations.
6.2.1 EVM DELEGATECALL The first potential approach leverages opcode `DELEGATECALL` in Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).
While this is a powerful tool to update business logic, it has several drawbacks. Specifically, once deployed, the storage structure of the original smart contract must be maintained throughout updates. For this reason, this approach can only be employed in simple upgradable contract implementations and cannot be used for Jibrel's usecase.
6.2.2 Smart Contract Pruning Another potential solution is the pruning of the contract and deploying another new contract to the same address, preserving Events and State. While this would be an ideal solution for the Jibrel Network, it has yet to be implemented in EVM.
6.3 Jibrel Network Approach In building Jibrel, we leverage a more tedious but holistic solution  we deconstruct the whole system into multiple sophisticated smart contracts that interact with one another, but can provide seamless upgrades and updates.
While more complex to implement, it provides a powerful backend for Jibrel DApps.

6.3.1 CryDR 3Layer System CryDRs are deconstructed into their critical components: Storage  Houses all the data View: Interface for thirdparty contracts and webapps Controller: Implements compliance and business logic, orchestrates storage and view contracts
Figure 3. Tiered Architecture
6.3.1.1 Updating Compliance With this structure, we can easily deploy a new CryDR controller contract and configure view and storage contracts to use this new controller. Effectively, this allows us to easily update the underlying compliance and businesslogic powering CryDRs, what we refer to as Smart Regulation.
Figure 4. Controller Updates
By facilitating a process that allows for business logic to be updated, the Jibrel Network ensures tokens can remain fully compliant by evolving with changes in realworld regulation.

6.3.1.2 Upgrading Interfaces Using this architecture, we can also upgrade token interfaces seamlessly, such as providing additional support for new token standards (e.g. ERC223)
Figure 5. View Upgrades
When conducting such upgrades, CryDR storage remains unchanged / unaffected. Since Views act as a tiered layer ahead of the controller, all Events remain intact during updates. A well implemented controller will trigger all connected views, so clients can receive all events.
Figure 6. Trigger Events

Put simply, this means all compliance measures must be implemented onchain via smart contracts.
In order to implement KYC/AML measures we need to implement two solutions:
Data storage: To store user data onchain Rule Implementation: Apply KYC / AML rules on each transaction
Many projects address the first task. Such as Civic, and uPort. However, these solutions are built to be adaptive and versatile, as a result, these solutions are only able to store generic user information that does not sufficiently meet the need of institutional grade KYC / AML processes.
For this reason, Jibrel will build out a dedicated compliance API that will liaise with both a dedicated Jibrel KYC / AML module as well as thirdparty solutions available today.
Figure 7. Jibrel Compliance API

6.3.2 Smart Regulation Architecture Implementing KYC/AML measures require strict and detailed account permissioning controls. Smart contracts have inherited limitations, primarily, they are only able to access onchain data, with calls to thirdparty services prohibited by design.
In order to access offchain data, the data must first be pushed onto the blockchain in form of transactions.

6.3.3 Role of Jibrel Network Token (JNT) A key business requirement of the Jibrel Network is that all CryDRs must remain tethered to an underlying asset. In order to achieve this, offchain assets must first be securitized, which is why a virtual exchange currency is required. Both to transact with the network, as well as facilitate the payment offchain fees.
An existing currency (e.g. BTC, ETH) is not suitable as the price movements of these currencies are unrelated to utility in the Jibrel Network. This disconnect imposes market and credit risk. In addition, if the Jibrel Network aims to provide a dedicated chain in the future, a dedicated token will be required to facilitate a seamless migration process.
CryDRs themselves are unsuitable for this solution, as they must remain tethered to realworld assets, leveraging them as part of payment causes another

disconnect to emerge, unbalancing the system.
Jibrel Network Token (JNT) will act as the `fuel' or `gas' of the network. JNT will provide universal access to all features provided by the Jibrel Network and the relevant Jibrel DApps.
JNT ensures all CryDRs remain tethered to their respective underlying assets at all times, adding an additional layer of compliance.
Figure 8. Jibrel Network Token Interaction

7.2 Onchain Digital Identity / KYC / AML While many onchain digital identity and KYC solutions exist today, they are limited in functionality. More advanced identification solutions will be required to achieve selfservice portals.
7.3 Board of Directors DAO Once operations have reached steady state, the Board of Directors can be dissolved and replaced with a autonomous regulatory entity, charged with overseeing the operations of the JDB.

7. FULLY DECENTRALIZED OPERATIONS
In the short to medium term, offchain activities will be needed to undertake the necessary legal and financial due diligence to convert physical assets to digital assets. In addition, the BOD members will be needed to oversee the JDB to ensure full transparency and regulatory compliance.
In the longerterm, it is expected that regulation will evolve to facilitate onchain verification of asset ownership, enabling jibrel to become a decentralized autonomous organization.
7.1 Selfservice Portals Once the technological limitations such as onchain computational capability and the feasibility of implementing complex zeroknowledge proofs5[9]; as well as the regulatory hurdles of obtaining the relevant licensing, are overcome, jibrel could operate selfservice portals (i.e. traditional exchange platforms hosted onchain, communicating with the jibrel network).
The buildout of these portals is critical to jibrel achieving full decentralization.

8. USECASES
Traditional assetbacked tokens that are easily exchangeable provides a wide range of usecases
8.1 Traditional / Digital Asset Exchange By allowing traditional assets and digital assets to be freely traded between one another, a platform is inherently developed that facilitates lowrisk, high returns for institutional investors through the wholesale of traditional investment instruments to investors and entities seeking stable digital assets.
8.1.1 Investment Platform An investment bank can deposit money market instruments or commodities into the JDB and then sell
those products (CryDRs) to decentralized organizations and funds at a premium, benefiting from onchain / offchain arbitrage.
8.1.2 Hedging Tokens Decentralized Autonomous Organizations and funds can purchase money market CryDRs and store them onchain, with full transparency, reassuring investors that their funding is safe. Decentralized Autonomous Funds can choose from a wide range of traditional assets to complement their digital portfolios and protect against cryptoeconomy downturns.
8.2 Global Transfers By providing assetbacked tokens, the platform is able to provide tokens that possess all the desirable qualities of both, traditional assets  in particular, stability and global adoption, and digital assets  immutability, ease of transfer and reliability.
With these tokens, payment gateways, remittance channels and other money transfer usecases can be implemented.

5 While significant work has been undertaken to improve the efficiency of probabilistically checkable proofs, they still remain highly impractical

8.2.1 Remittances Jibrel can enable remittances by enabling fiat to fiat transfers that use cryptoinfrastructure to execute transactions. Users can add funds and transfer them to anyone in the world, leveraging the low fees provided by digital currencies while still maintaining the stability, security and safety of traditional currencies.
8.2.2 Universal Wallet Currency agnostic wallets can be created that allow users to freely convert between currencies and make transfers to anyone, anywhere in any currency, without the exorbitant fees usually associated with such transactions.
8.3 Crossborder Payments Similarly, jibrel can enable crossborder payments.
8.3.1 Currency API With the underlying tokens, jibrel can provide a currency API that allows users to convert freely between currencies.
8.3.2 Merchant API Jibrel can provide merchants with a simple easy to use payment gateway that can accept payments in any currency and payout in the local currency. Without incurring exchange or transfer fees.
Once the network is established, merchants will be able to setup currency agnostic payment gateways using jibrel's userfriendly libraries and API.

9. REFERENCES

[1] Nakamoto, Satoshi, Bitcoin: A peertopeer electronic cash system, 2008  URL  {https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf}

[2] Brennan and Lunn, Credit Suisse Equity Reports  Blockchain  The trust disruptor: Shared ledger technology and the impact on stocks, 2016  URL {http://www.theblockchain.com/docs/CreditSuisseBlock chainTrustDisrupter.pdf}

[3] Golem, The Golem Project: Crowdfunding White

Paper,

2016



URL

{http://golemproject.net/doc/DraftGolemProjectWhitepap

er.pdf}

[4] Wilkinson, Shawn, Storj Project: A PeertoPeer Cloud Storage Network, 2014  URL {https://storj.io/storj.pdf}

[5] Tether Ltd, Tether: Fiat currencies on the Bitcoin blockchain, 2016  URL {https://tether.to/wpcontent/uploads/2016/06/TetherWhi tePaper.pdf}

[6] Eufemio, Chng and Djie, Digix: The Gold Standard in CryptoAssets, 2016  URL {https://dgx.io/whitepaper.pdf}

[7] Buterin, Vitalik, Ethereum: A NextGeneration Smart Contract and Decentralized Application Platform, 2013  URL {http://ethereum.org/ethereum.html}

[8] Solidity, Solidity: A contractoriented, highlevel language for the Ethereum Virtual Machine, Release 0.4.10 Documentation  URL {http://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.4.10/}

[9] BenSasson, Chiesa, Garman, Green, Miers, Troma and Virza, Zerocash: Decentralized Anonymous Payments from Bitcoin, 2014  URL {http://zerocashproject.org/media/pdf/zerocashextended 20140518.pdf}

