  

  

  

   1  

  

Table  of  Contents  
BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  DELTA  BRAINWAVES ......................................................... 3   WHO  HAS  HIGH  AMOUNTS  OF  DELTA  BRAINWAVES? ..........................................................6   THE  BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  THETA  BRAINWAVES .........................................................7   THE  BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  ALPHA  BRAIN  WAVES...................................................... 10   BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  BETA  BRAINWAVES................................................................... 12   BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  GAMMA .......................................................................................... 15   PROBLEMS  ASSOCIATED  WITH  EXCESSIVE  GAMMA  BRAINWAVES .............................. 18   UNHEALTHY  WAYS  TO  INCREASE  GAMMA  BRAINWAVES ................................................ 20  
              
  
                                                                          

  

2  

           
UNDERSTANDING  YOUR  BRAINWAVES   by  
Jeffrey  L.  Fannin,  Ph.D.  
  

BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  DELTA  BRAINWAVES  
   Release  of  Anti--Aging  hormones  -  One  of  the  associated  benefits  of  increasing  your   delta  brainwaves  is  the  release  of  anti--aging  hormones.  The  delta  brainwave  pattern   stimulates  the  release  of  melatonin  and  DHEA,  2  powerful  anti--aging  hormones.  The   delta   brainwaves   are   also   associated   with   decreased   levels   of   cortisol   --   a   hormone   linked  to  stress  that  has  been  scientifically  proven  to  speed  up  the  aging  process.  
State   of   empathy   -   Delta   brainwaves   can   provide   you   with   the   ability   to   read   other   peoples   emotions   and   determine   their   feelings   at   unconscious   levels.   In   healthy   amounts,   delta   brainwaves   cause  a  person  to  have  an  advanced   state   of   empathy,   understanding,   and   compassion   for   others.   If   you   are   always   able   to   relate   to   others   and   can   "read   other   people's   minds,"   you   probably  have  more  delta  than  the  average  person.  If  you  find  yourself  getting  into   trouble   for   not   being   considerate   enough   or   for   "stepping   on   other   people's   toes,"   you  may  have  less  overall  delta  brainwave  activity.  
Extreme  bliss  -  Advanced  meditation  practices  and  yogic  traditions  have  associated   the   delta   brainwave   frequency   range   with   a   feeling   of   all--encompassing   bliss.   Since  

  

3  

most  people  aren't  able  to  consciously  experience  the  delta  brainwave  state,  it  may   be   tough   to   feel   extreme   bliss   from   the   delta   waves   like   the   yogis,   monks,   or   advanced   meditators.   With   that   said,   there   have   been   people   that   have   testified   to   feeling   the   bliss   associated   with   the   delta   brainwave   while   performing   extremely   deep  meditation.  
Advanced   healing   of   body   and   mind   -   The   delta   brainwave   rhythm   is   known   to   completely   rejuvenate,   replenish,   and   heal   the   entire   body   and   brain.   The   delta   brainwave   revives   the   body   after   a   hard   day   by   regenerating   necessary   chemicals   while   a   person   is   asleep.   Due   to   the   deepest   levels   of   relaxation   that   the   delta   brainwave   provides,   the   body   and   mind   are   easily   able   to   restore   themselves   after   minor  stress,  a  rigorous  workout,  or  after  boosting  your  brain  power.  
Human   Growth   Hormone   (H.G.H.)   Release   -   The   delta   brainwave   is   associated   with   the   stimulation   of   the   pituitary   gland,   which   in--turn,   is   able   to   release   human-- growth--hormone   --   commonly   referred   to   as   H.G.H.   It   doesn't   release   enough   for   you   to   skyrocket   in   height   and   weight.   The   delta   brainwave   will   not   provide   adults   with   a   second   version   of   puberty.   With   that   said,   there   is   evidence   that   it   does   release  slight  amounts  of  H.G.H.  in  certain  individuals.  If  you  are  looking  to  increase   your   H.G.H.,   you   should   definitely   consider   using   delta   brainwave   entrainment   and   evaluate  how  it  works  out  for  you!  
Connection   with   unconscious   mind   -   Though   the   alpha   and   theta   brainwaves   are   capable  of  bridging  the  gap  between  conscious  thoughts  and  the  subconscious  mind,   the   delta   brainwave   allows   us   to   connect   deeper:   it   allows   us   to   connect   with   the   deepest   possible   level   of   our   consciousness.   The   goal   of   many   meditation   practices   is   to   experience   and   consciously   control   the   unconscious   mind.   The   subconscious   mind,  or  our  brain's  right--hemisphere,  becomes  activated  when  slower  brainwaves   like  alpha,  theta,  and  delta  waves  kick  in.  If  you  spend  too  much  time  in  beta,  it  may   feel   incredible   to   finally   relax   and   give   yourself   a   chance   to   connect   with   your   deepest  sense  of  awareness.  

  

4  

Deepest  possible  level  of  mind  /  body  relaxation  -  Delta  brainwaves  while  a  person  is   conscious  or  awake,  are  extremely  rare.  However,  advanced  meditators  and  infants,   are  2  groups  of  people  that  are  able  to  enjoy  the  deeply  relaxing  benefits  of  the  delta   brainwave.   Remember   what   you   felt   like   when   you   were   an   infant?   Probably   not   --   the   delta   brainwave   is   associated   with   extreme   relaxation,   yet   completely   unconscious  mental  processes.  
Perfect   intuition   -   Ever   have   a   powerful   gut--instinct   that   helped   you   make   a   good   decision?   Or   a   gut--instinct   that   you   should've   followed?   If   we   get   ourselves   too   caught  up  in  the  upper  brainwave   patterns  of  beta,  our  intuitiveness   becomes   severely   damaged.   As   you   increase   your   theta   brainwaves   and   your   delta   brainwaves,   your   intuition   will   increase   and   so   will   your   ability   to  recognize  the  feelings  in  your  "gut."  There  are  some  disagreements  as  to  whether   or  not  the  theta  brainwave  patterns  are  better  for  intuition  vs.  the  delta  brainwave   patterns,   but   most   research   suggests   that   if   you   can   become   consciously   aware   in   the  delta  brainwave  state,  you  will  have  a  nearly  perfect  sense  of  intuition.  
Connecting  with  the  spiritual  body  -  Many  consider  the  delta  brainwave  to  bridge  the   conscious  mind  with  higher  planes  of  reality  with  the  subconscious  mind.  Advanced   spiritual   gurus   have   considered   the   slowest   brainwave   pattern,   delta,   one   that   connects  their  spirit  and  their  body  to  a  universal  life  energy.  Becoming  consciously   aware  of  experiencing  the  delta  brainwave  frequencies  has  been  associated  with  the   deepest   sense   of   spirituality,   highest   sense   of   internal   awareness,   and   feeling   directly  connected  to  a  Higher  Power.  

  

5  

Paranormal   Experiences   -   People   are   especially   open   to   O.O.B.E.'s   (Out   Of   Body   Experiences),   astral   travel,   connecting   with   spiritual   beings   (i.e.   "spirit   guides,"   "angels,"   etc.),   E.S.P.,   and   other   phenomenon   in   the   delta   brainwave   range.   Though   most  paranormal  and  psychic  experiences  can  be  argued  to  be  real  or  fake,  there  is   evidence   that   most   people   tend   to   have   them   when   their   brain   is   producing   higher   than   average   amounts   of   delta,   and   /or   theta   brainwaves.   Though   spiritual   experiences   and   phenomena   are   commonly   experienced   in   the   theta   brainwave   state,  the  delta  brainwave  state  has  been  associated  with  many  too!  
Boosted   immune   system   -   Increasing   your   delta   brainwaves   can   lead   to   a   boosted   immune   system   due   to   the   fact   that   delta   brainwaves   are   associated   with   age-- reversal   or   slowing,   the   production   of   healthy   hormones,   and   significantly   decreased  amounts  of  stress.  Increasing  your  delta  brainwaves  can  lead  to  a  boosted   immune   system   due   to   the   fact   that   delta   brainwaves   are   associated   with   healing   and   rejuvenation   of   the   body.   Stress   and   too   much   anxiety   can   do   harm   to   the   immune   system   by   releasing   harmful   chemicals   such   as   epinephrine   (adrenaline)   and   too   much   of   the   hormone:   cortisol,   associated   with   the   adrenaline   release.   The   delta   brainwave   releases   pleasant   chemicals   and   neurotransmitters   to   help   keep   your  immune  system  at  arguably  its  highest  rate  of  performance.  
WHO  HAS  HIGH  AMOUNTS  OF  DELTA  BRAINWAVES?      Advanced   Meditators   -   The   goal   of   many   meditation   practices   is   to   increase   the   amount  of  slower  brainwave  patterns.  Usually,  after  practice,  meditators  are  able  to   become  consciously  aware  in  the  alpha,  and  possibly  the  theta  brainwave  ranges.  It   takes  a  rigorous  amount  of  meditation  and  dedication  to  become  consciously  aware   during  the  delta  brainwave  state.  After  you  gain  a  lot  of  meditation  experience,  you   can  eventually  learn  how  to  shift  your  brainwaves  from  the  beta  range,  through  the   pleasant   calmness   of   alpha,   into   the   extraordinary   theta   range.   If   you   get   lucky,   you'll  eventually  cultivate  awareness  in  the  delta  range.  Experienced  meditators  are   able   to   recognize   and   control   their   state   of   awareness   and   brainwaves.   Like   any   practice,   the   more   you   do   it,   the   better   your   chances   of   passing   through   the   alpha  

  

6  

brainwave  range,  into  theta,  and  from  theta  into  the  delta  brainwave  rhythm.        Delta  brainwaves  are  not  only  abundant  in  those  who  are  in  deep  meditation,   but   they   are   also   abundant   in   new   born   infants,   young   children,   people   with   A.D.D.   or   A.D.H.D.,   people   who   have   had   near   death   experiences,   or   people   who  have  experienced  head  injuries.     
THE  BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  THETA  BRAINWAVES      The  Paranormal--  No  matter  what  you  may  think  about  psychics  or  the  world  of  the   paranormal  or  unexplainable,  there  are  people  who  are  so  relaxing  in  both  mind  and   body  that  they  have  the  power  to  channel  the  unknown  by  communicating  with  the   deceased  or  be  clairvoyant  enough  to  receive  information  about  your  future.  There   is  a  lot  of  other  unexplainable  phenomenon  as  well.  Have  you  ever--experienced   physical  pain  that  arose  for  no  reason  whatsoever,  like  headaches  or  migraines?   Other  people  have  reoccurring  and  traumatizing  nightmares  night  after  night  for  no   apparent  reason.  Is  there  a  way  to  eliminate  these  stress  reactors  or  are  they  here   for  good?  
Sleep  and  Dreaming--  Theta  brain  waves  are  slow  and  relaxing  brainwaves  that  are   usually  associated  with  us  when  we  sleep  and  are  dreaming.  Located  in  the  right   hemisphere  of  the  brain,  they  usually  arise  when  we  are  dreaming,  sleepy,   emotional,  relaxed  or  daydreaming.  Although  we  all  possess  theta  brain  waves,  they   are  most  commonly  accessible  for  people  that  struggle  with  ADD,  or  those  that   dream  in  a  very  relaxed  state.  Artists  are  known  to  have  frequent  theta  brain  waves   as  well  as  any  other  highly  creative  individual.  Whenever  we  are  really  and  truly   relaxed,  dreaming  in  a  deep  slumber  or  creatively  thinking,  we  may  be  utilizing   theta  brain  waves.  When  we  are  consciously  awake,  our  brain  waves  are  going  at   13--40  Hz,  which  is  known  as  Beta  brain  waves.  When  we  are  mediation  or  in  a  deep   relaxed  state,  our  Alpha  brain  waves  measure  at  7--13  Hz.  However,  when  we  are   dreaming,  our  Theta  brain  waves  measure  out  at  4--7  Hz,  which  accounts  for  a  deep  

  

7  

relaxation  that  no  other  level  of  our  brain  waves  can  match.  This  accounts  for  many   benefits  for  both  of  mind  and  body.  
Musicians,  sculptors  and  artists  --  Since  theta  brain  waves  operate  at  a  much  slower   rate,  there  are  many  benefits  to  our  emotional  state  of  mind.  It's  unlikely  that  many   adults  will  experience  theta  brain  waves  during  their  waking  hours,  but  many   children  two  and  under  experience  it  on  an  ongoing  basis.  Children  have  the  ability   to  feel  relaxed  at  all  times  (except  when  they  cry)  but  as  adults,  our  brain  is  usually   experiencing  alpha  or  beta  brain  waves.  When  we  sleep  and  are  totally  relaxed,  we   can  easily  experience  theta  brain  waves.  Musicians,  sculptors  and  artists  of  many   genres  are  able  to  experience  more  theta  brain  waves  than  other  individuals.  This  is   because  they  tap  into  theta  brain  waves  as  a  way  to  become  creative  when  there   `artistic  juices'  have  run  out.  
Help  for  Business  Professionals  --  Since  theta  brain  waves  are  considered  fast  brain   activity,  they  offer  many  benefits  you  can  utilize  in  the  workplace.  The  common  beta   brain  wave  pattern  is  that  it  can  block  people  from  getting  past  conflicts  and  finding   the  appropriate  solution.  Theta  brain  waves  can  help  you  solve  your  problems  with   an  extra  amount  of  problem  solving  ability.  This  can  help  writer's  overcome   `writer's  block'  or  help  business  professional's  move  past  the  problem  at  hand  and   see  the  larger  picture  more  clearly.  Theta  brain  waves  can  also  contribute  to   lowering  the  stress  level  overall.  There's  a  good  chance  that  for  anyone  that  has  a   large  amount  of  theta  brain  waves  ongoing  as  they  move  through  their  day  and   night,  they  experience  less  stress  and  better  coping  abilities  for  when  they  do  have  a   stressful  situation.  Theta  brain  waves  make  it  easier  for  individuals  to  have  less   anxiety  and  neurosis  overall.  There's  no  question  here:  learning  language  as  we   become  older  is  not  as  easy  as  it  once  was  when  we  were  children.  Although  there   are  many  memory  ticks  available,  part  of  the  difficulty  to  transform  our  memory  so   that  we  can  learn  language  quickly  has  to  do  with  our  brain  waves.  What  is  blocking   us  from  retaining  information  more  thoroughly  and  easily  as  we  age?  Since  theta   brain  waves  are  so  commonly  found  in  children,  there  is  strong  correlation  between  

  

8  

the  presence  of  theta  brain  waves  and  learning  language  and  language  development.   When  we  have  theta  brain  waves  in  our  consciousness  as  an  adult,  our  ability  to   learn  language  easily  is  possible.  Theta  brain  waves  can  also  explain  what  connects   our  physical  and  spiritual  selves.  If  you've  ever  wondered  why  some  people  have  a   stronger  spiritual  connection  than  others,  it  could  be  due  to  theta  brain  waves.  This   type  of  brain  activity  has  been  suggested  to  improve  spiritual  awareness  and   insight.  Theta  brain  waves  have  also  been  thought  to  improve  a  person's  ability  to   have  ESP  and  be  receptive  to  paranormal  activity.  
Difficulty  in  Concentrating  --   So,  with  as  many  benefits  as   theta  brain  waves  can  create   for  someone,  what  could   possibly  be  the  drawback?   People  with  ADD  have   trouble  focusing.  Attention   Deficit  Disorder  creates  a   difficulty  to  concentrate  on   one  thing  for  too  long,  and  the  contribution  of  theta  brain  waves  can  make  it   increasingly  difficult  to  focus.  Another  downside  of  theta  brain  waves  can  also   produce  feelings  of  depression  until  you  move  into  the  beta  or  alpha  range.   Boredom  is  a  common  feeling  experienced  with  theta  brain  waves;  however,  if  you   experience  boredom  or  become  uninvolved  with  life's  usual  activities  for  too  long,   you  may  want  to  think  about  contacting  your  doctor.  
Depression  --  is  quite  common  with  people  that  have  large  amounts  of  theta  brain   waves,  and  if  this  is  the  case  with  you,  it's  important  to  be  vey  cautious  about   symptoms  you  exhibit.  For  example,  if  you  have  a  loss  of  appetite,  become  highly   impulsive  or  stop  finding  joy  with  the  activities  you  normally  enjoy,  consult  a   professional.  However,  there  are  so  many  benefits,  that  for  many  people,  it's  worth   improving  the  amount  of  theta  brain  waves  you  currently  have.  Playing  video  games  

  

9  

can  shut  down  the  beta  brain  waves  and  switch  your  brain  to  a  visual  type  of   thinking  which  can  produce  a  creative,  theta  activity  on  a  regular  basis.  Meditation   can  drastically  help  to  lower  your  brain  waves,  especially  when  done  on  a  regular   basis.  It  doesn't  matter  whether  you  meditate,  play  video  games  or  indulge  in  more   artistic  activities  to  increase  your  theta  brain  wave  activity.  All  contributes  to  more   productivity,  creativity  and  the  improvement  of  your  memory.  
THE  BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  ALPHA  BRAIN  WAVES      Deep  Relaxation  of  Body  and  Mind  ­  Your  stresses  and  worries  drift  away  when  you   enter  the  alpha  brainwave  state.  Tension  and  nervousness  disappear  as  your  brain's   thought  process  is  calmed  down;  your  mind  becomes  clearer.      Higher  Levels  of  Creativity  ­  Alpha  brainwave  levels  are  found  to  be  much  higher  in   artists,  musicians  and  creative  thinkers.  Creative  thinkers  also  tend  to  be  those  who   go  on  to  become  world  famous  entrepreneurs,  as  they  are  better  equipped  at  solving   life's  problems  and  helping  others.  Right  now,  employers  are  looking  for  new  and   innovative  ideas  to  help  them  survive  in  this  economy.    Those  who  have  the   entrepreneurial  edge  over  others  are  making  vast  fortunes  from  the  wealth  of   opportunities  that  exist  to  the  creative  alpha--minders!      Improved  Problem  Solving  Abilities  ­  When  you  have  too  much  beta  activity  in  your   brain,  your  ability  to  problem  solve  shuts  right  down.  Stress  causes  clutter  in  your   thought  process.  The  solution  is  to  produce  more  alpha  waves.  If  you  ever  get   writer's  block  or  get  stuck  on  an  important  task,  then  getting  that  "aha"  moment  of   creative  inspiration  is  possible  when  you  learn  how  to  switch  on  your  alpha  mind   and  get  back  into  your  state  of  "flow."      Improved  Mood  and  Stability  of  Emotions  ­  Having  more  alpha  brainwaves  usually   indicates  more  positive,  stable  and  balanced  emotions.  This  means  you  can  cope   better  with  stress  and  keep  calm  in  tough  situations.  Irritable,  anxious  and  over  

  

10  

sensitive  people  tend  to  spend  most  of  their  time  in  a  beta  state,  and  can  usually   greatly  improve  their  minds  by  increasing  their  alpha  brainwaves  without  resorting   to  taking  drugs,  excessive  alcohol  and  other  bad  habits.     
Performance  and  Getting  In  the   "Zone"  ­  the  alpha  brainwave  state   is  associated  with  "peak   performance"  and  players  who  get   "in  the  zone"  perform  best  when   they  have  less  beta  brainwaves   interfering  with  their  peak,  alpha   state  of  mind.  Studies  on   professional  sports  players  have   shown  they  have  a  surge  in  alpha   brainwaves  in  the  left  side  of  their   brain  just  before  making  a  successful   shot  or  playing  decision.  Those  who  failed  tend  to  have  a  flood  of  beta  brainwaves  in   their  left  side  of  their  brains  instead.  It  has  been  shown  by  experiments  like  these   that  "over  thinking"  (beta)  or"  under  thinking"  (theta)  have  a  negative  effect  on   game  play,  but  being  in  an  alpha  brainwave  state  is  the  perfect  state  for  high   performance.      Super  learning"  and  "Genius  states"  ­  learning  new  skills,  enhanced  memory  and   genius--like  abilities  are  found  in  those  who  spend  their  time  mostly  in  an  alpha   brainwave  state.  This  is  because  the  tasks  associated  with  those  abilities  require  less   overall  effort  to  accomplish  and  the  ability  to  retain  large  amounts  of  information  is   enhanced.      Enhanced  Immune  System  ­  Long--term  stress  and  tension  have  a  negative  impact  on   your  immune  system  and  can  even  shut  it  down  completely  in  extreme  cases,  due  to  

  

11  

the  excessive  production  of  cortisol  and  adrenaline.  When  you  are  in  an  alpha   brainwave  state,  you  are  in  a  relaxed  state  where  your  immune  system  is  allowed  to   work  at  its  best.  The  "feel  good"  effect  of  alpha  brainwaves  leads  to  the  production   of  happy  and  well--functioning  cells  in  your  body,  which  provides  a  healthy  and   efficient  immune  system  ready  to  protect  you  from  any  disease.      Levels  of  "Serotonin"  ­  Serotonin  is  released  more  during  alpha  brainwave  states.   Serotonin  levels  are  associated  with  your  moods  and  low  serotonin  levels  are  linked   to  depression  and  other  neurological  disorders,  such  as  anxiety  and  panic  attacks.     
BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  BETA  BRAINWAVES      Ability  to  think  quickly  ­  When  a  person  is  high  in  beta  brainwaves,  they  are  able  to   think  fast,  generate  new  ideas  quickly,  and  live  in  a  high  state  of  functioning.  Quick   thinking  and  mental  processing  definitely  helps  when  applying  for  a  job  in  the  21st   century  and  preparing  for  exams.  Studies  have  shown  that  people  who  think   quickly  feel  more  confident,  happier,  and  actually  live  longer  than  slower  thinkers.      Being  more  social  ­  When  a  person  talks,  their  beta  brainwave  range  naturally   increases.  If  you  are  interested  in  becoming  more  social,  an  increase  in  beta   brainwaves  may  be  the  ticket.  In  most  people,  an  increase  in  beta  activity  boosts   conversational  energy  and  ability  to  keep  conversation  going.  I've  had  personal   experiences  in  the  high  beta  brainwave  range  and  you  are  more  social  period.      Feeling  excited  ­  Ever  get  that  nice  healthy  adrenaline  rush  or  feeling  of   excitement  in  the  pit  of  your  stomach?  That  feeling  is  caused  by  an  increase  in  the   amount  of  beta  brainwaves.  Beta  waves  kick  in  when  people  get  excited  and   definitely  feel  invigorating.      Goal  oriented  ­  When  people  are  in  the  beta  brainwave  state,  they  naturally  feel  

  

12  

more  goal--oriented.  It  could  be  due  to  the  fact  that  they  have  more  energy,  are   more  social,  and  have  high  levels  of  focus  that  cause  them  to  naturally  be  more   goal--oriented.  It  could  also  be  the  fact  that  an  increase  in  left--hemisphere  brain   functioning  is  associated  with  goals  and  goal  setting.  Either  way,  it  definitely  will   get  you  more  pumped  up  and  inspired  to  achieve  your  goals.      Peak--performance  ­  Though  a  specific  peak--performance  brainwave  pattern  is   heavily  debated,  beta  brainwaves  can  certainly  aid  in  performance  ability.  When  a   person's  focus  skyrockets,  and  their  energy  levels  skyrocket,  their  performance   abilities  will  naturally  increase.      Highest  levels  of  focus  ­  Have  some  mental  fog  and  a  low  level  of  focus?  Beta   brainwaves  may  be  the  ticket  to  changing  that  around!  People  with  ADD  and   ADHD  are  commonly  prescribed  stimulants,  which  cause  beta  brainwave  activity   in  their  brains  to  increase.  Hence,  an  increased  ability  to  focus,  get  things  done,   and  all  the  other  things  associated  with  beta  waves.      More  energy  ­  Do  you  lack  energy?  Are  you  always  tired  and  wish  you  had  more   energy?  Well,  beta  brainwaves  could  definitely  help  you  out!  People  low  in  beta   brainwaves  feel  tired  and  report  less  overall  energy  throughout  the  day.  To  get   out  of  a  sleepy  state  and  lift  some  mental  fog,  consider  increasing  your  beta   waves!      Positive  thoughts  ­  I've  definitely  noticed  that  I  feel  less  depressed  and  constantly   am  able  to  generate  positive  thoughts  while  in  a  high--beta  mental  state.  Positive   thinking  and  an  increase  in  beta  waves  makes  perfect  sense  because  the  left-- hemisphere  is  associated  with  positive  thoughts.      Write  easily  and  quickly  ­  When  beta  brainwave  levels  are  high,  one's  ability  to   write  increases.  Beta  activity  occurs  in  the  left  hemisphere  that  is  highly  activated  

  

13  

while  writing.  I  can  personally  testify  for  this  one:  my  ability  to  write  is  definitely   enhanced  when  I  am  able  to  get  into  a  state  of  beta.      Increase  in  I.Q.  ­  Studies  have  been  done  and  show  that  people  higher  in  the  beta   brainwave  range  actually  have  higher  I.Q.'s  than  the  average  population.  It  makes   perfect  sense,  since  activities  like  reading  and  solving  math  problems  can   definitely  help  build  a  smart  brain.      As  goes  for  anything,  too  much  beta  activity  can  be  a  bad  thing.  By  no  means   would  it  be  a  good  idea  for  you  to  increase  a  brainwave  that  you  already  have   high  levels  of.  In  fact,  you  may  experience  the  horror  of  beta  brainwaves,  as   they  can  cause:  
Anxiety  ­Too  much  beta  activity  may  cause  you  to  feel  afraid  or  have  thoughts  of   fear  towards  things  that  you  are  usually  calm.  I  would  imagine  that  if  your   brainwaves  get  high  enough  in  the  beta  range,  you  will  begin  to  notice  a  fear  of   things  that  are  not  normal  to  freak  out  over.      Stress  ­  Though  there  are  many  good  things  that  come  with  beta  waves,  there  is   also  a  huge  possibility  that  they  may  stress  you  out.  They  are  linked  to  increased   stress,  which  is  why  it  is  important  to  learn  how  to  shift  your  brainwaves  when   needed.      Paranoia  ­  Paranoid  schizophrenics  are  actually  able  to  generate  much  more  high-- beta  (25--30  Hz)  activity  than  the  average  population.  Are  beta  brainwaves  the   cause  of  schizophrenia?  No,  they  are  a  side--effect  and  schizophrenia  is  a  much   more  complex  disease.  Increasing  beta  brainwaves  will  not  increase  the  likelihood   of  you  becoming  crazy,  but  they  could  make  you  feel  more  paranoid  than  usual.   Always  checking  the  locks  and  worried  that  someone  will  break  in?  It  may  be  time   to  boost  that  alpha  brainwave  pattern  and  tone  down  the  beta!     

  

14  

Muscle  tension  ­  Another  drawback  to  the  beta  brainwaves  is  that  your  body  will   feel  uneasy  and  muscle  tension  increases.  Nobody  enjoys  feeling  tensed  and   unable  to  relax  their  muscles.  Avoid  high  amounts  of  beta  activity  to  avoid  tense   muscles.      Increased  blood  pressure  ­  High  blood  pressure  is  usually  not  anything  to  be  proud   of.  Beta  brainwaves  cause  an  increase  in  stress  and  thoughts  and  naturally   increase  your  blood  pressure.  If  your  blood  pressure  is  already  high,  chances  are   good  that  you  know  what  a  beta  brainwave  state  feels  like.      Unwanted  thoughts  ­  Beta  brainwaves  can  be  a  source  of  unwanted  or  anxious   thoughts.  Too  much  beta  activity  can  cause  one  to  experience  a  mild  form  of   obsessive--compulsive  disorder.  Rapid,  random  thoughts  that  are  beyond  control   have  potential  to  haunt  the  person  that  is  high  in  beta.      Insomnia  ­  Want  to  stay  up  all  night?  If  so,  I  recommend  increasing  your  beta   activity.  It  is  probably  a  bad  idea  to  do  any  beta--geared  activity  right  before  falling   asleep.  Keep  your  brain  healthy,  get  that  sleep,  and  work  to  prevent  insomnia.      Addiction  ­  Are  you  addicted  to  the  internet?  Chances  are  that  if  you  have  an   addiction,  you  would  greatly  benefit  from  a  downscaling  in  your  current  amount  of   beta  brainwaves!  Look  at  "how  to  boost  your  alpha  brain  wave"  to  help  you  curb  and   hopefully  eliminate  your  addictions.     
BENEFITS  OF  INCREASING  GAMMA      The  Brain's  Optimal  Frequency  --  Gamma  brainwaves  are  considered  the  brain's   optimal  frequency  of  functioning.  Gamma  brainwaves  are  commonly  associated   with  increased  levels  of  compassion,  feelings  of  happiness,  and  optimal  brain   functioning.  Gamma  brainwaves  are  associated  with  a  conscious  awareness  

  

15  

of  reality  and  increased  mental  abilities.   A  Gamma  wave  is  a  pattern  of  brain   waves,  associated  with  perception  and   consciousness.  Gamma  waves  are   produced  when  masses  of  neurons   emit  electrical  signals  at  the  rate  of  38   Hz  ­  200+  Hz  and  have  a  tiny  (virtually   unnoticeable)  amplitude.  Gamma   brainwaves  can  be  found  in  virtually   every  part  of  the  brain.  They  serve  as  a   binding  mechanism  between  all  parts  of   the  brain  and  help  to  improve  memory   and  perception.  By  one  definition,   gamma  waves  are  manifest  at  24  Hz  and   higher,  though  researchers  have  recognized  that  higher  level  cognitive  activities   occur  when  lower  frequency  gamma  waves  suddenly  double  into  the  40  Hz  range.    
Gamma  Present  in  Awake  State  and  During  Active  REM  --  Research  has  shown  gamma   waves  are  continuously  present  during  low  voltage  fast  neocortical  activity  (LVFA),   which  occurs  during  the  process  of  awakening  and  during  active  rapid  eye   movement  (REM)  sleep.  Some  researchers  do  not  distinguish  gamma  waves  as  a   distinct  class  but  include  them  in  beta  brain  waves.  New  evidence  has  emerged  of   brainwave  states  above  the  highest  recognized  brainwave  frequencies  of  Beta  (30   Hz).    Gamma  brainwaves  resonate  around  40  Hz  and  are  associated  with  the  brain   function  that  holographically  synthesizes  all  the  bits  of  individual  data  from  various   areas  of  the  brain  and  fuses  them  all  together  in  a  higher  perspective.    
Gamma  is  the  Harmonizing  Frequency  --  for  example  when  you  are  observing  an   object,  its  color,  size,  texture  etc  are  all  perceived  and  processed  by  different  parts  of   the  brain,  it  is  thought  that  Gamma  allows  for  unification  of  all  the  different   information.  This  brainwave  activity  is  associated  with  states  of  self--awareness,  

  

16  

higher  levels  of  insight  and  information,  psychic  abilities  and  out  of  body   experiences.  This  new  region  of  brain  activity  and  states  of  consciousness  associated   with  it  is  called  EPSILON.    
Theta  and  Gamma  rhythms  Interact  --  helping  the  brain  to  package  information  into   coherent  images,  thought  and  memories.  EEG  researchers  are  noticing  extremely   high  brainwave  frequencies  above  Gamma,  at  up  to  100  Hz.  Totally  opposite  speed   brainwave  frequencies  --  some  at  100  Hz  and  others  at  less  than  0.5  Hz  --  have  exactly   the  same  states  of  consciousness  associated  with  them.  These  high--range  brain   frequency  states  are  named  Hyper  Gamma.  Later  information  showed  new  evidence   of  frequencies  even  higher  than  this,  at  almost  200  Hz.named:  Lambda  brainwave   frequencies  and  states  of  consciousness.  These  HyperGamma,  Lambda  and  Epsilon   frequencies,  are  linked  together  in  a  circular  relationship  --where  if  you  looked  with   a  magnifying  glass  at  an  extremely  slow  Epsilon  brain  frequency,  you  would  see   hidden  within  it  a  modulation  frequency  of  100  --  200  Hz.    
Epsilon  and  Lambda  Brainwaves  --  If  you  stand  back  far  enough  from  an  extremely   fast  200  Hz  brainwave  frequency,  you  would  see  that  is  it  riding  on  the  crest  of  a   slow  motion  modulating  wave  of  Epsilon.  This  Epsilon  state  of  consciousness  (the   state  Yogi's  go  into  when  they  achieve  "suspended  animation")  is  where  western   medical  doctors  can  perceive  no  heartbeat,  respiration  or  pulse.  Hyper  Gamma  and   Lambda  states  of  consciousness  are  the  states  associated  with  the  ability  of  certain   sects  of  Tibetan  monks  who  can  mediate  in  the  Himalayan  mountains  in  sub-- zero  temperatures  with  scanty  clothing  and  melt  the  snow  all  around  them.  Fast,   gamma  rhythms  range  from  30  to  100  Hz,  and  may  vary  in  frequency  during  a   response.  The  20--100  Hz  range  we  consider  here  overlaps  the  beta  band  (15  to  30   Hz).      
Gamma  in  Sensory  Stimuli  --  Gamma  rhythms  occur  in  sensory  stimuli.  In  humans  and   other  mammals  following  sensory  stimuli  there  is  an  increase  in  Gamma  activity.   They  often  occur  in  brief  runs  in  these  responses.  Initially  researchers  found  50--60  

  

17  

Hz  in  the  olfactory  bulb  in  the  brain.  They  have  since  been  found  in:  olfactory,  visual,   auditory,  somatosensory,  and  motor  cortex.  Gamma  oscillations  also  occur  in  the   hippocampus,  where  the  link  with  external  sensory  stimuli  is  less  direct,  but  may   still  exist  in  the  higher  order  sensory  cortices.  Hippocampal  gamma  tends  to  occur   during  the  theta  (4--12  Hz)  EEG  that  is  a  prominent  feature  of  the  hippocampus  in   vivo  (In  vivo  Latin  for  "within  the  living,"  is  experimentation  using  a  whole,  living   organism  as  opposed  to  a  partial  or  dead  organism,  or  an  in  vitro  ("within  the  glass",   i.e.,  in  a  test  tube  or  petri  dish)  as  a  controlled  environment,  especially  during   exploration  and  research.  In  humans  the  auditory  response  includes  brief  "40  Hz   transient  responses"  which  increase  when  the  subject  pays  attention  and  which   disappear  with  loss  of  consciousness  during  anesthesia.    
Gamma  Rhythms  Can  Be  Very  Widespread  --  Repetitive  auditory  stimulation  at  ~40   Hz  generates  a  large  "40  Hz  steady  state  response".  MEG   (magnetoencephalography)  recordings  in  humans  suggest  that  gamma  rhythms  can   be  very  widespread,  both  during  waking  and  dream  states.  Other  MEG   measurements  in  Man  suggest  that  gamma  rhythms  may  be  organized  to  sweep   across  the  whole  brain,  perhaps  providing  "temporal  binding  ....  into  a  single   cognitive  experience".  
  
PROBLEMS  ASSOCIATED  WITH  EXCESSIVE  GAMMA  BRAINWAVES      Some  anxiety  --  Though  gamma  brainwaves  are  usually  not  correlated  with  stress   and  anxiety,  they  can  be.  When  a  person  mostly  displays  high  amounts  of  beta   brainwaves  in  combination  with  gamma  on  an  E.E.G.,  the  individual  probably  has   very  high  levels  of  anxiety.  Though  gamma  brainwaves  usually  decrease  when  we   are  under  stress,  the  dopamine  released  from  gamma  brainwaves  can  actually  cause   us  to  feel  overanxious,  nervous,  or  tense.  It  is  best  not  to  increase  both  gamma  and   beta  brainwaves  at  the  same  time.  Depending  on  your  current  brainwave  state,  it  is   important  to  recognized  that  though  you  are  usually  safe  with  increasing  gamma,  

  

18  

overdoing  training  time  or  frequency  of  training  may  make  you  feel  unpleasantly   anxious.    
Clear,  Conscious  Perception  of  Reality  --  Some  people  are  not  prepared  for  the   mental  awakening  that  is  associated  with  gamma  brainwaves.  If  you  are  currently   living  a  fairly  unfocused  life  and  happen  to  begin  entraining  the  gamma  brainwave,   it  may  feel  like  a  huge  jolt  to  your  consciousness.  If  I  was  extremely  unfocused,  I'd   definitely  work  on  entraining  the  gamma  brainwave,  but  I'd  do  it  slowly  and  in   moderation.  Too  much  gamma  entrainment  will  actually  give  you  a  headache!  It  is   important  to  not  become  disturbed  by  your  brains  initial  reactions  to  an  increased   gamma  brainwave  and  perception  of  reality.  
   GAMMA  BRAINWAVE  ACTIVITY  IS  PRESENT  IN  RAPID--EYE  MOVEMENT  
(R.E.M.)  Sleep  and  is  associated  with  dreaming.  Getting  a  good  night's  sleep  is   important  for  staying  healthy,  keeping  a  healthy,  powerful  brain.  Gamma   brainwaves  also  increase  the  moment  we  awaken.  Though  we  are  in  the  theta   brainwave  for  most  R.E.M.  sleep,  the  gamma  brainwave  is  present  along  with  the   theta.  Most  non--dream,  deep  sleep  is  linked  to  an  increase  in  delta  brainwave   activity,  whereas  dream--sleep  is  mostly  linked  to  gamma  and  theta  brainwave   activity.    
Meditation  --  The  goal  of  most  types  of  meditation  is  to  lower  the  brainwaves  into   the  alpha--theta  brainwave  range.  With  that  said,  as  you  learn  to  become  more  aware   and  increase  awareness  of  your  brainwave  state,  your  gamma  brainwave  activity   will  naturally  increase.  A  very  safe,  healthy  way  to  attempt  to  increase  your  gamma   brainwaves  is  to  make  the  act  of  meditation  a  daily  habit  or  start  up  a  meditation   routine.  If  you  are  already  meditating,  great  --  you'll  naturally  increase   your  awareness.  As  you  increase  your  awareness,  your  gamma  brainwave  will   increase.  Hypnosis  /  Self--hypnosis  --  The  goal  of  all  hypnosis  and  self--hypnosis   programs  is  to  target  the  lower  brainwave  ranges  (i.e.  alpha  and  theta)  and  implant  

  

19  

new  beliefs.    
Self--Hypnosis  --  Though  you  are  slowing  your  brainwaves,  your  concentration  levels   are  skyrocketing  as  well.  Only  having  large  amounts  of  alpha  and  theta  without   gamma  would  make  self--hypnosis  very  difficult  and  an  ineffective  practice.  The   more  often  you  participate  in  self--hypnosis,  the  more  your  gamma   brainwave  amplitude  will  increase.  Yoga  --  Like  meditation  --  yoga  is  yet  another   activity  that  promotes  relaxation  and  wellbeing  by  shifting  your  brainwaves  and   increasing  your  perception  of  reality.  Brainwaves  of  yogis  have  shown  that  they  are   able  to  increase  their  gamma  brainwaves  to  higher  than  average  amounts.  Though   there  are  many  different  types  of  yoga,  if  they  are  practiced  correctly,  they  can  be   utilized  to  increase  awareness  and  gain  valuable  insight  from  within.  
UNHEALTHY  WAYS  TO  INCREASE  GAMMA  BRAINWAVES      There  are  no  known  unhealthy  activities  that  increase  gamma  brainwaves   Virtually  all  activities  that  are  detrimental  to  mental  health,  decrease  the  amount  of   gamma  brainwave  activity  in  the  brain  --  Things  like  general  anesthesia,  stress,  and   killing  brain  cells  will  decrease  your  brain's  natural  production  and  amount  of   gamma  brainwave  activity.  As  gamma  brainwave  activity  decreases,  susceptibility  to   depression,  stress,  and  unfocused  or  impulsive  thinking  may  overtake  the  brain.               

  

20  

